For the school year , 1959-1960 , the Prince Edward County ( Virginia ) Board of Supervisors voted not to provide funds for public education , and the school board therefore could provide no public education -- for white or Negro children .
Is public education in this American democracy of such importance that no child should be denied public education ? ?
Or is this subject a matter of self-determination , a matter of states rights or county rights ? ?
If people don't want to provide public education , should they be forced to do so ? ?
Even if we marshal substantial agreement behind mandatory public education , we likely cannot expect that all the states will enact the legislation .
Should the requirement , which must therefore be Federal in nature , be legislated by the United States Congress ? ?
Or must it become law by amendment of the United States Constitution ? ?
We actually have two issues in this question -- goal and method .
Issue no. 6 .
Federal responsibility for education of the citizens .
If the above issue is settled by requiring public education for all citizens , Issue No. 6 may be moot .
If , on the other hand , it is not settled , or while it is being debated and resolved , does the Federal government have a responsibility in situations like that in Prince Edward County ? ?
Nearly half the children still receive no education .
Must or should the Federal government help ? ?
Should the government directly provide education for the children who want public education ? ?
The next question is whether board members favor their own social classes in their roles as educational policy-makers .
On the whole , it appears that they do not favor their own social classes in an explicit way .
Seldom is there an issue in which class lines can be clearly drawn .
A hypothetical issue of this sort might deal with the establishment of a free public junior college in a community where there already was a good private college which served the middle-class youth adequately but was too expensive for working-class youth .
In situations of this sort the board generally favors the expansion of free education .
Campbell studied the records of 172 school board members in twelve western cities over the period of 1931 - 40 and found `` little or no relationship between certain social and economic factors and school board competence '' , as judged by a panel of professional educators who studied the voting records on educational issues .
The few cases of clear favoritism along social-class lines are as likely as not to involve representatives of the working class on the school board who favor some such practice as higher wages for janitors rather than pay increases for teachers , and such issues are not issues of educational policy .
In general , it appears that trustees and board members attempt to represent the public interest in their administration of educational policy , and this is made easier by the fact that the dominant values of the society are middle-class values , which are generally thought to be valid for the entire society .
There have been very few cases of explicit conflict of interest between the middle class and any other class in the field of educational policy .
If there were more such cases , it would be easier to answer the question whether the policy-makers favor their own social classes .
There is currently a major controversy of public education in which group interests and values are heavily engaged .
This is the issue of segregated schools in the South .
In this case it is primarily a matter of conflict of racial groups rather than social-class groups .
Thus , the white middle and lower classes are arrayed against the Negro middle and lower classes .
This conflict may be resolved in a way which will suit white middle-class people better than it suits white lower-class people .
If this happens , there may be some class conflict in the South , with school boards and school teachers taking the middle-class position .
The educational profession
The members of the educational profession have a major voice in the determination of educational policy , their position being strongest in the universities .
They are mostly upper-middle- and lower-middle-class people , with a few in the upper class .
Do they make class-biased decisions ? ?
In a society dominated by middle-class values and working in an institution which transmits and strengthens these social values , it is clear that the educational profession must work for the values which are characteristic of the society .
There is no problem here .
The problem arises , if it does arise , when the educator has to make a choice or a decision within the area of his professional competence , but which bears some relation to the social structure .
For instance , in giving school grades or in making recommendations for the award of a college scholarship , does he consciously or unconsciously favor students of one or another social class ? ?
Again , in deciding on the content and method of his teaching , does he favor a curriculum which will make his students stronger competitors in the race for higher economic status , or does he favor a curriculum which strengthens students in other ways ? ?
The answers to questions such as these certainly depend to some extent upon the educator's own social-class position and also upon his social history , as well as upon his personality and what he conceives his mission to be as an educator .
In a set of case studies of teachers with various social-class backgrounds , Wattenberg illustrates a variety of approaches to students and to teaching which depend upon the teacher's personality as well as on his social-class background .
One upward-mobile teacher may be a hard taskmaster for lower-class pupils because she wants them to develop the attitudes and skills that will enable them to climb , while another upward-mobile teacher may be a very permissive person with lower-class pupils because he knows their disadvantages and deprivations at home , and he hopes to encourage them by friendly treatment .
One social-class factor which plays a large part in educational policy today is the fact that a great many school and college teachers are upward mobile from urban lower-class and lower-middle-class families .
Their own experience in the social system influences their work and attitudes as teachers .
While this influence is a complex matter , depending upon personality factors in the individual as well as upon his social-class experience , there probably are some general statements about social-class background and educational policy that can be made with a fair degree of truth .
Teachers who have been upward mobile probably see education as most valuable for their students if it serves students as it has served them ; ;
that is , they are likely to favor a kind of education that has vocational-advancement value .
This does not necessarily mean that such teachers will favor vocational education , as contrasted with liberal education , but they are likely to favor an approach to liberal education which has a maximal vocational-advancement value , as against a kind of `` pure '' liberal education that is not designed to help people get better jobs .
There is no doubt that higher education since World War 2 , has moved away from `` pure '' liberal education toward greater emphasis on technology and specialization .
There are several causes for this , one being rapid economic development with increasing numbers of of middle-class positions requiring engineering or scientific training .
But another cause may lie in the experience of so many new postwar faculty members with their own use of education as a means of social advancement .
Compared with the college and university faculty members of the period from 1900 to 1930 , the new postwar faculty members consist of more children of immigrants and more children of urban working-class fathers .
Their experience is quite in contrast with that of children of upper- and upper-middle-class native-born parents , who are more likely to regard education as good for its own sake and to discount the vocational emphases in the curriculum .
The `` public interest '' groups
Educational policies are formed by several groups who are officially or unofficially appointed to act in the public interest .
Legislators are one such group , and state legislators have major responsibility for educational legislation .
They generally vote so as to serve their own constituency , and if the constituency should be solidly middle class or solidly lower class , they might be expected to vote and work for middle- or for lower-class interests in education .
However , there are relatively few such political constituencies , and , as has been pointed out , there is seldom a clear-cut distinction between the educational interests of one social class and those of another .
Another public interest group is the commission of laymen or educators which is appointed to study an educational problem and to make recommendations .
Generally these commissions work earnestly to represent the interest of the entire society , as they conceive it .
Nevertheless , their conclusions and recommendations cannot please everybody , and they often represent a particular economic or political point of view .
For instance , there have been two Presidential Commissions on higher education since World War 2 .
President Truman's Commission on Higher Education tended to take a liberal , expansionist position , while President Eisenhower's Committee on Education Beyond the High School was slightly more conservative .
Both Commissions consisted of upper-middle- and upper-class people , who attempted to act in the public interest .
An example of a more definite class bias is noted in proceedings of the Commission on the Financing of Higher Education sponsored by the Association of American Universities and supported by the Rockefeller Foundation and the Carnegie Corporation .
This Commission recommended against the use of federal government funds for the assistance of private universities and against a broad program of government-supported scholarships .
This might be said to be an upper- or an upper-middle-class bias , but the Commission published as one of its staff studies a book by Byron S. Hollingshead entitled Who Should Go To College ? ?
Which recommended a federal government scholarship program .
Furthermore , the Commission set up the Council for Financial Aid to Education as a means of encouraging private business to increase its support of private higher education .
Thus , the Commission acted with a sense of social responsibility within the area of its own convictions about the problem of government support to private education .
Then there are the trustees and officers of the great educational foundations , who inevitably exert an influence on educational decisions by their support or refusal to support various educational programs , experiments , and demonstrations .
These people are practically always upper- or upper-middle-class persons , who attempt to act in what they regard as the interest of the entire society .
Finally there are the parent organizations and the laymen's organizations such as the National Association of Parents and Teachers , and the Citizens Committee on Public Schools .
These have an upper-middle-class leadership and a middle-class membership , with rare exceptions , where working-class parents are active in local P.-T.A. matters .
Like the other policy-making groups , these are middle class in their educational attitudes , and they attempt to act in the general public interest , as they see it .
In general , it appears that educational decisions and educational policies are made by people who intend to act in the interests of the society as a whole .
They are predominantly middle- and upper-class people , and undoubtedly share the values and attitudes of those classes .
They may be unaware of the existence of lower-class values and consequently fail to take them into account .
But there is very little frank and conscious espousal of the interests of any one social class by the people who have the power to make decisions in education .
They think of themselves as trustees for the entire society and try to serve the entire society .
Attempts to influence social structure through education
Educational policy in the United States has as an explicit goal the maximization of economic and cultural opportunity .
In so far as this goal is achieved , the society becomes more fluid , artificial barriers to social mobility are reduced , and people at the lower end of the social hierarchy share more fully in the material and cultural goods of society .
On the other hand , there is a counterbalancing purpose in education which is to pass on the advantages of the parents to their children .
This leads to efforts at exclusiveness through private schools and to the maintenance of social stratification in the schools .
Both of these purposes exist side by side without much overt conflict under present conditions .
Maximizing economic and cultural opportunity
The broad expansion of free education results both in raising the average economic and cultural level of the society and in promoting fluidity within the social structure .
Fifty years ago the general raising of the school-leaving age to sixteen was an example of this movement .
During the past decade the program has been carried on through expansion of free higher education in state universities , state colleges , and community colleges .
The reaffirmation of American faith in the comprehensive high school , as expressed in the Conant study , is another indication of the liveliness of the ideal of maximizing opportunity through the equalizing of educational opportunity .
The recent federal government's student-loan program is another step in the direction of making higher education more available to lower-status youth .
It is probably more effective than the expanded scholarship programs of the past decade , because the scholarship programs mainly aided the students with the best academic records ( who were usually middle-class ) , and these students tended to use the scholarship funds to go to more expensive colleges .
Meanwhile , the private colleges have increased their tuition rates so much that they have raised an economic barrier which dwarfs their scholarship funds .
The gains in educational opportunity during the past decade have taken place largely in the publicly supported institutions .
Unfortunately , however , and for reasons to be discussed in the following chapter , no rate relationships can be made completely nondiscriminatory as long as all or some of the rates must be set above marginal costs in order to yield adequate revenues .
And this fact may explain some of the disagreements among the experts as to the more rational formulas for the apportionment of total costs among different units of service .
One such disagreement , which will receive attention in this next chapter , concerns the question whether rates for different kinds of service , in order to avoid the attribute of discrimination , must be made directly proportional to marginal costs , or whether they should be based instead on differences in marginal costs .
Here , the choice is that between the horns of a dilemma .
Two major types of fully distributed cost analysis
1 .
The double-step type
Despite an ambiguity due to its failure clearly to define `` relative costs '' , the above exposition of fully distributed costing goes about as far as one can go toward expressing the basic philosophy of the practice .
For more explicit expositions , one must distinguish different types of analyses .
By all means the most important distinction is that between those total-cost apportionments which superimpose a distribution of admittedly unallocable cost residues on estimates of incremental or marginal costs , and those other apportionments which recognize no difference between true cost allocation and mere total-cost distribution .
The first , or double-step , type might also be called the `` railroad type '' because of its application to railroads ( and other transportation agencies ) by the Cost Section of the Interstate Commerce Commission .
The Cost Section distinguishes between ( directly ) variable costs and constant costs in a manner noted in the preceding chapter .
The variable costs alone are assigned to the different units of freight traffic as representing `` long-run out-of-pocket costs '' -- a term with a meaning here not distinctly different from that of the economist's `` long-run marginal costs '' .
There remains a residue of total costs , or total `` revenue requirements '' which , since it is found to behave as if it were constant over substantial variations in traffic density , is strictly unallocable on a cost-finding basis .
Nevertheless , because the Cost Section has felt impelled to make some kind of a distribution of total costs , it has apportioned this residue , which it sometimes calls `` burden '' , among the units of carload traffic on a basis ( partly ton , partly ton-mile ) which is concededly quite arbitrary from the standpoint of cost determination .
In recent years , this burden ( which includes allowances for revenue deficiencies in the passenger business and in less-than-carload freight traffic ! !
) has amounted to about one third of those total revenue requirements which the carload freight business is supposed to be called upon to meet .
Since this book is concerned only incidentally with railroad rates , it will not attempt to analyze the methods by which the staff of the Interstate Commerce Commission has estimated out-of-pocket costs and apportioned residue costs .
Suffice it to say that the usefulness of the latter apportionment is questionable .
But in any event , full credit should be given to the Cost Section for its express and overt recognition of a vital distinction too often ignored in utility-cost analyses : namely , that between a cost allocation designed to reflect the actual behavior of costs in response to changes in rates of output of different classes of utility service ; ;
and a mere cost apportionment which somehow spreads among the classes and units of service even those costs that are strictly unallocable from the standpoint of specific cost determination .
2 .
The single-step type
We turn now to a type of fully distributed cost analysis which , unlike the `` railroad type '' , draws no distinction between cost allocation and cost apportionment : the single-step type .
It might be called the `` public utility '' type because of the considerable use to which it has been put in gas and electric utility rate cases .
Here no attempt is made , first to determine out-of-pocket or marginal costs and then to superimpose on these costs `` reasonably distributed '' residues of total costs .
Instead , all of the total costs are treated as variable costs , although these costs are divided into costs that are deemed to be functions of different variables .
Moreover , whereas in Interstate Commerce Commission parlance `` variable cost '' means a cost deemed to vary in direct proportion to changes in rate of output , in the type of analysis now under review `` variable cost '' has been used more broadly , so as to cover costs which , while a function of some one variable ( such as output of energy , or number of customers ) , are not necessarily a linear function .
As already noted in an earlier paragraph , the more familiar cost analyses of utility enterprises or utility systems divide the total costs among a number of major classes of service , such as residential , commercial , industrial power , street lighting , etc. .
This `` grand division '' permits many costs to be assigned in their entirety to some one class , such as street lighting , or at least to be excluded completely from some important class or classes .
High-tension industrial power service , for example , would not be charged with any share of the maintenance costs or capital costs of the low-tension distribution lines .
But the major portions of the total costs of a utility business are common or joint to all , or nearly all , classes of customers ; ;
and these costs must somehow be apportioned among the various classes and then must somehow be reapportioned among the units of service in order to report unit costs that can serve as tentative measures of reasonable rates .
The general basis on which these common costs are assigned to differently measured units of service will be illustrated by the following highly simplified problem of an electric-utility cost analysis .
But before turning to this example , we must distinguish two subtypes of analysis , both of which belong to the single-step type rather than to the double-step type .
In the first subtype , the analyst ( following the practice of railroad analysis in this particular respect ) distributes both total operating costs and total annual capital costs ( including an allowance for `` cost of capital '' or `` fair rate of return '' ) among the different classes and units of service .
Here , an apportionment , say , of $5,000,000 of the total costs to residential service as a class would include an allowance of perhaps 6 per cent as the cost of whatever capital is deemed to have been devoted to the service of the residential consumers .
But in the second subtype , which I take to be the one more frequently applied , only the operating expenses and not the `` cost of capital '' or `` fair return '' are apportioned directly among the various classes of service .
To be sure , the capital investments in ( or , alternatively , the estimated `` fair values '' of ) the plant and equipment are apportioned among the different classes , as are also the gross revenues received from the sales of the different services .
But any resulting excess of revenues received from a given class of service over the operating costs imputed to this class is reported as a `` return '' realized on the capital investment attributed to the same service .
Thus , during any given year ( A ) if the revenues from the residential service are $7,000,000 , ( B ) if the operating expenses imputed to this class of service come to $5,000,000 , and ( C ) if the net investment in ( or value of ) the plant and equipment deemed devoted to this service amounts to $30,000,000 , the cost analyst will report that residential service , in the aggregate , has yielded a return of $2,000,000 or 6-2/3 per cent .
Other services will show different rates of return , some probably much lower and some higher .
There are obvious reasons of convenience for this practice of excluding `` cost of capital '' from the direct apportionment of annual costs among the different classes of service -- notably , the avoidance of the controversial question what rate of return should be held to constitute `` cost of capital '' or `` fair rate of return '' .
But the practice is likely to be misleading , since it may seem to support a conclusion that , as long as the revenues from any class of service cover the imputed operating expenses plus some return on capital investment , however low , the rates of charge for this service are compensatory .
Needless to say , any such inference would be quite unwarranted .
For the reason just suggested , I shall assume the use of the first subtype of fully distributed cost apportionment in the following simplified example .
That is to say , an allowance for `` cost of capital '' will be assumed to be included directly in the cost apportionment .
Three-part analysis of the costs of an electric utility business
In order to simplify the exposition of a typical fully apportioned cost analysis , let us assume the application of the analysis to an electric utility company supplying a single city with power generated by its own steam-generation plant .
Let us also assume the existence of only one class or type of service , all of which is supplied at the same voltage , phase , etc. to residential , commercial , and industrial customers .
This latter assumption will permit us to center attention on the most controversial aspect of modern public utility cost analysis -- the distinction among costs that are functions of outputs of the same service measured along different dimensions .
Since the company under review is supplying what we are here regarding as only one kind of service , we might suppose that the problem of total cost apportionment would be very simple ; ;
indeed , that it would be limited to a finding of the total annual operating and capital costs of the business , followed by a calculation of this total in terms of annual cost per kilowatt-hour of consumption .
In fact , however , the problem is not so simple .
For a statement of costs per kilowatt-hour would ignore the fact that many of these costs are not a function of kilowatt-hour output ( or consumption ) of energy .
A recognition of multiple cost functions is therefore required .
The simplest division , and the one most frequently used ( with subdivisions ) in gas and electric rate cases , is a threefold division of the total operating and capital costs into `` customer costs '' , `` energy '' or `` volumetric costs '' , and `` demand '' or `` capacity '' costs .
If this threefold division of costs were to have its counterpart in the actual rates of charge for service , as it actually does have in some rates , there would result a three-part rate for any one class of service .
For example , the monthly bill of a residential consumer might be the sum of a $1 customer charge , a $5 charge for 250 kilowatt-hours of energy at
per kilowatt-hour , and a $2 charge for a maximum demand of 2 kilowatts during the month at the rate of $1 per kilowatt -- a total bill of $8 for that month .
But our present interest lies in the measurement of costs of service , and only indirectly in rates that may or may not be designed to cover these costs .
Let us therefore consider each of the three types of cost in turn , recognizing that this simplified classification is used only for illustrative purposes ; ;
costs actually vary in much more complex ways .
1 .
The customer costs
These are those operating and capital costs found to vary with number of customers regardless , or almost regardless , of power consumption .
Included as a minimum are the costs of metering and billing along with whatever other expenses the company must incur in taking on another consumer .
These minimum costs may come to $1 per month , more or less , for residential and small commercial customers , although they are substantially higher for large industrial users , who require more costly connections and metering devices .
While costs on this order are sometimes separately charged for in residential and commercial rates , in the form of a mere `` service charge '' , they are more frequently wholly or partly covered by a minimum charge which entitles the consumer to a very small amount of gas or electricity with no further payment .
But the really controversial aspect of customer-cost imputation arises because of the cost analyst's frequent practice of including , not just those costs that can be definitely earmarked as incurred for the benefit of specific customers but also a substantial fraction of the annual maintenance and capital costs of the secondary ( low-voltage ) distribution system -- a fraction equal to the estimated annual costs of a hypothetical system of minimum capacity .
The preconditions of sociology have remained largely unexamined by the sociologist .
Like primitive numbers in mathematics , the entire axiological framework is taken to rest upon its operational worth .
But what is the operational worth of a sociology which mimetically reproduces the idea of physical models ? ?
Is it not the task of philosophy to see what intelligible meaning can be assigned to the most sacred canons in social science ? ?
It has become painfully clear that the very attempt to make the language of social research free of values by erecting mathematical and physical models , is itself a conditioned response to a world which pays a premium price for technological manipulation .
This push to confine the study of mass behaviour to the measurements of parameters involved in differential equations has led sociology perilously close to the reduction of the word `` mass '' to mean a small group in which certain relations between all pairs of individuals in such a group can be studied .
( cf. Rapoport , 1959 : :
Ch. 11 .
) Here I think the role of the philosopher becomes apparent .
The simple pragmatic success of the sociology of small groups needs to be questioned .
For if the small group notion involves the implicit claim that the phenomena of sociological investigations are of atomic or subatomic proportions , the philosopher needs to know the extent to which such entities are valid .
The mere exploration of the unconscious ground of present-day sociology offers a rich vein of philosophical and logical investigation .
( cf. Brodbeck , 1959 : :
Ch. 12 .
)
A parallel function for philosophy is the study of the relation between perceptions experientially received and conceptions logically formed .
Philosophy can supply adequate criteria of meaning in the selection of socially viable categories .
This involves a sifting of the empirical and rational elements entering into each social science statement .
Merton's functional sociology may have great practical use in the study of different cultures , yet it is perfectly clear , as Nagel ( 1957 : :
247 - 83 ) and Hempel ( 1959 : :
271 - 307 ) indicate , that the concept of function in sociology has been built up from physiological and biological models , in which the notions of teleology , i.e. , metaphysical purpose , are central .
( cf. Chapter 9 .
) Functionalism as a sociological credo is , therefore , not a direct consequence of observations , but rather an indirect consequence of philosophical inference and judgment .
The purpose of this sort of philosophical study of sociology is not to tyrannize but to clarify the principles of social science .
It is absurd to speak of philosophy as a superior enterprise to sociology , since the former is a logical , rational discipline , where sociology is essentially descriptive and empirical .
Such a position entails the negation of philosophy in its Platonic form as something soaring above and embracing the empirical and mathematical sciences .
But contrary to Whitehead , philosophy is not a synonym for Plato .
The uses of philosophy as a logical clearing house are manifest to any approach that does not descend to pure sensationalism .
However , when philosophy attempts to stand above the sciences , to dictate the conditions of empirical research , it becomes formal metaphysics ; ;
shaping the contours of life to fit the needs of legends .
The notion of philosophy as Queen Bee may fit well with authoritarian modes of political ideology , but it has been noted that the price of such an imperial notion of philosophy is the frustration and flagellation of the social sciences .
( cf. Wetter , 1952 : :
Pt. 2 , Ch. 5 ; ;
Horowitz 1957b .
)
Metaphysics is no longer a direct grappling with nature as it was in antiquity .
It has surrendered any claims of description in favor of psychological accounts of nothingness , as in Heidegger's system ( 1929 ) .
Science is mocked for wishing to know nothing of Nothing , in a last ditch effort to save the gods at the expense of men .
It is not positivism which has isolated metaphysics from reality by distinguishing between description and prescription .
It is simply revealing the state to which metaphysical thinking has fallen during this century .
Consider the traditional `` four fields '' of philosophy : logic , ethics , epistemology and esthetics .
It is a commonplace that to the degree these special preserves of past philosophic hunting grounds establish an empirical content and suitable methodological criteria , they move away from philosophy as such .
What is left to traditional systems of philosophy is , in effect , only the history of these fields prior to their becoming rigorous enough to abide by the canons of scientific method .
In this situation , philosophy has survived by separating itself from metaphysics , by showing the ultimate questions to be the meaningless questions .
The relinquishing by philosophy of pretentious claims to empirical priority gives it an ability to treat problems of meaning and truth which in the past it was unable to examine because of its missionary attitude to knowledge of more humble sorts .
In the new situation , philosophy is able to provide the social sciences with the same guidance that mathematics offers the physical sciences , a reservoir of logical relations that can be used in framing hypotheses having explanatory and predictive value .
Beyond this , philosophy may urge the social sciences forward by asking the type of question that falls outside the present scope of social inquiry , but within its potential domain of relevance .
In this connection , it might be noted that the theory of games was a mathematical discovery long before its uses in political science were exploited .
Likewise , Kant formulated the nebular hypothesis , according to which the solar system was evolved from a rotating mass of incandescent gas , nearly a half century before its scientific value was made plain by Laplace in his Systeme Du Monde .
This does not mean that philosophy resolves the problems it generates , any more so than Riemann's geometry settled the physical status of the space-time continuum .
But the forceful presentation of new issues for the sciences to work on is itself a monumental task .
To those raised on Marcel's Homo Viator and Heidegger's das Nichtige , this may seem a modest role for philosophy .
However , modesty and triviality are different qualities .
Philosophy conceived of as servant to the sciences might appear as less dramatic than philosophy which jeers as the sciences evolve .
The ceaseless effort to understand and measure the distance mankind has traversed since its primitive anthropological status offers a more durable sort of drama .
By clarifying fundamental premises in the social sciences , and defining the logical problems emergent at the borderlands of each new scientific discipline , philosophy can offer the sort of distinction that can accelerate growth in human understanding .
Philosophy can prevent the working scientist from becoming slothful and self-content by noting the assumptions and level at which a hypothesis or theory is framed .
The dissection of scientific theory , the examination of a theory from the vantage-points of language , epistemology , and ethics , is itself a distinct contribution to knowledge , no less so because of its removal from empirical research .
The realm of science , whatever the degree of precision in formulations , covers the range of prediction and explanation .
( cf. Hempel and Oppenheim , 1948 : :
135 - 75 .
) Whatever philosophy is conceived to be , its rationalist , logistic attitude to evidence should make it clear that it is something other than science .
For some forms of philosophy , this very division between the empirical and the rational becomes a sign of the metaphysical superiority of the latter .
Bergson and Leroy announce that `` the secret is the center of a philosophy '' and thereafter a hundred followers declare secrecy a higher verity .
This is simply a confession of intellectual sterility spruced up to look virtuous .
For as Merleau-Ponty indicated ( 1953 ) , it is not the secret which is important , but the removal of secrecy .
In this , philosophy and science share a common goal .
The hypostatization of the secret nonetheless guarantees that the division of analytical and synthetic philosophies shall not be overcome by even the most persuasive argument ; ;
for this division is but an abstract representation of the social struggle between mysticism and science .
The mystification of metaphysical systems does not imply the demise of philosophy , only the close of a philosophic age which demanded metaphysics to be rational and logical .
The tenacity with which present metaphysical attitudes fetishize private intuition offers the strongest evidence that the gulf between scientific and delphic ways of philosophizing is built into the present conflict over the limits and purpose of science , religion and ideology .
( cf. McGlynn : 1958 .
) Scientific systems , and this includes even the relation of mechanist to relativist physics , are built upon , refined and corrected .
Philosophic systems , by the very nature of their completeness , are overthrown by rival systems .
In addition to the incompleteness of science and the completeness of metaphysics , they differ in that science is essentially descriptive , while philosophy in its inherited forms , tends to be goal-oriented , teleological and prescriptive .
The threadbare notion that belief , unlike behaviour , is not subject to objective analysis , has placed intuitive metaphysics squarely against the sociology of knowledge , since it is precisely the job of the sociology of knowledge to treat beliefs as social facts no less viable than social behaviour .
When dealing with the actual relation of philosophy to the sociology of knowledge , or better the role of philosophy in assisting research on the social sources of ideas , one has to become necessarily selective .
Certain features we have touched upon : philosophy as a logical , deductive system from which a social science methodology can be built up ; ;
philosophic analysis of the assumptions and presumptions of the social sciences ; ;
and philosophy as a guide to possible integration of supposedly disparate sociological investigations .
The objection will be raised that the most important role of philosophy in relation to social science has been omitted , namely the status of ultimate value questions and norms operative in the social sciences .
Specifically , it will be asked whether the `` real '' questions people ask are not the `` ultimate '' questions that social science finds itself impotent in the face of .
What then is the status of such questions as : is society the ground of human existence or a means to an individual goal ? ?
Do societies develop according to cosmic patterns or are they subject only to the free choice of individuals ? ?
Does society really exist as an entity over and above the agglomeration of men ? ?
I think it must be said that , contrary to metaphysical insistence , these are questions so framed as to defy either empirical exploration or rational solutions .
As Simmel ( 1908 ) and Dilthey ( 1922 ) indicated , questions of whether the value of life is individual or social are not questions , but assertions of faith made to appear as legitimate questions .
Such pseudo-questions assume that answers of concrete significance can be supplied to statements involving undefined universals .
Social theory has no more right to expect results from meaningless questions , than physics has the right to expect a theological solution to the wave-particle controversy .
It is not that such questions are not asked .
It is rather that introducing them into social analysis reflects not so much a search for truth as for certainty .
An operational approach to sociology can never expect abstract certainty , since it is certainty which every new discovery in science either replaces or reshapes .
To raise the added objection that men require certainty on psychological grounds , answers to ultimate questions having an irrational rather than scientific basis , is in a real sense to undermine the objection itself .
For what concerns all scientific disciplines is precisely that which can be captured for the rational , i.e. , for the scientific determination of what in past ages was considered ultimate and irrational .
A philosophy which attempts to supply ultimate answers in an ultimate way reveals its acquiescence in the shortcomings of men , an impatience with partial , tentative solutions .
Men have always lived in a tentative world , and in suspension of ultimate judgments where and when necessary .
Uncertainty overcoming itself is the precondition of the quest for new and more precise information about the world .
Without such uncertainty we are left with a set of dogmas and myths .
The functional interplay of philosophy and science should , as a minimum , guarantee a meaningful option to myth-making .
A degree of indefiniteness is a salutary condition for the growth of science .
But neither was the statement empirical , for goodness was not a quality like red or squeaky that could be seen or heard .
What were they to do , then , with these awkward judgments of value ? ?
To find a place for them in their theory of knowledge would require them to revise the theory radically , and yet that theory was what they regarded as their most important discovery .
It appeared that the theory could be saved in one way only .
If it could be shown that judgments of good and bad were not judgments at all , that they asserted nothing true or false , but merely expressed emotions like `` Hurrah '' or `` Fiddlesticks '' , then these wayward judgments would cease from troubling and weary heads could be at rest .
This is the course the positivists took .
They explained value judgments by explaining them away .
Now I do not think their view will do .
But before discussing it , I should like to record one vote of thanks to them for the clarity with which they have stated their case .
It has been said of John Stuart Mill that he wrote so clearly that he could be found out .
This theory has been put so clearly and precisely that it deserves criticism of the same kind , and this I will do my best to supply .
The theory claims to show by analysis that when we say , `` That is good '' , we do not mean to assert a character of the subject of which we are thinking .
I shall argue that we do mean to do just that .
Let us work through an example , and the simpler and commoner the better .
There is perhaps no value statement on which people would more universally agree than the statement that intense pain is bad .
Let us take a set of circumstances in which I happen to be interested on the legislative side and in which I think every one of us might naturally make such a statement .
We come upon a rabbit that has been caught in one of the brutal traps in common use .
There are signs that it has struggled for days to escape and that in a frenzy of hunger , pain , and fear , it has all but eaten off its own leg .
The attempt failed : the animal is now dead .
As we think of the long and excruciating pain it must have suffered , we are very likely to say : `` It was a bad thing that the little animal should suffer so '' .
The positivist tells us that when we say this we are only expressing our present emotion .
I hold , on the contrary , that we mean to assert something of the pain itself , namely , that it was bad -- bad when and as it occurred .
Consider what follows from the positivist view .
On that view , nothing good or bad happened in the case until I came on the scene and made my remark .
For what I express in my remark is something going on in me at the time , and that of course did not exist until I did come on the scene .
The pain of the rabbit was not itself bad ; ;
nothing evil was happening when that pain was being endured ; ;
badness , in the only sense in which it is involved at all , waited for its appearance till I came and looked and felt .
Now that this is at odds with our meaning may be shown as follows .
Let us put to ourselves the hypothesis that we had not come on the scene and that the rabbit never was discovered .
Are we prepared to say that in that case nothing bad occurred in the sense in which we said it did ? ?
Clearly not .
Indeed , we should say , on the contrary , that the accident of our later discovery made no difference whatever to the badness of the animal's pain , that it would have been every whit as bad whether a chance passer-by happened later to discover the body and feel repugnance or not .
If so , then it is clear that in saying the suffering was bad we are not expressing our feelings only .
We are saying that the pain was bad when and as it occurred and before anyone took an attitude toward it .
The first argument is thus an ideal experiment in which we use the method of difference .
It removes our present expression and shows that the badness we meant would not be affected by this , whereas on positivist grounds it should be .
The second argument applies the method in the reverse way .
It ideally removes the past event , and shows that this would render false what we mean to say , whereas on positivist grounds it should not .
Let us suppose that the animal did not in fact fall into the trap and did not suffer at all , but that we mistakenly believe it did , and say as before that its suffering was an evil thing .
On the positivist theory , everything I sought to express by calling it evil in the first case is still present in the second .
In the only sense in which badness is involved at all , whatever was bad in the first case is still present in its entirety , since all that is expressed in either case is a state of feeling , and that feeling is still there .
And our question is , is such an implication consistent with what we meant ? ?
Clearly it is not .
If anyone asked us , after we made the remark that the suffering was a bad thing , whether we should think it relevant to what we said to learn that the incident had never occurred and no pain had been suffered at all , we should say that it made all the difference in the world , that what we were asserting to be bad was precisely the suffering we thought had occurred back there , that if this had not occurred , there was nothing left to be bad , and that our assertion was in that case mistaken .
The suggestion that in saying something evil had occurred we were after all making no mistake , because we had never meant anyhow to say anything about the past suffering , seems to me merely frivolous .
If we did not mean to say this , why should we be so relieved on finding that the suffering had not occurred ? ?
On the theory before us , such relief would be groundless , for in that suffering itself there was nothing bad at all , and hence in its nonoccurrence there would be nothing to be relieved about .
The positivist theory would here distort our meaning beyond recognition .
So far as I can see , there is only one way out for the positivist .
He holds that goodness and badness lie in feelings of approval or disapproval .
And there is a way in which he might hold that badness did in this case precede our own feeling of disapproval without belonging to the pain itself .
The pain in itself was neutral ; ;
but unfortunately the rabbit , on no grounds at all , took up toward this neutral object an attitude of disapproval and that made it for the first time , and in the only intelligible sense , bad .
This way of escape is theoretically possible , but since it has grave difficulties of its own and has not , so far as I know , been urged by positivists , it is perhaps best not to spend time over it .
I come now to a third argument , which again is very simple .
When we come upon the rabbit and make our remark about its suffering being a bad thing , we presumably make it with some feeling ; ;
the positivists are plainly right in saying that such remarks do usually express feeling .
But suppose that a week later we revert to the incident in thought and make our statement again .
And suppose that the circumstances have now so changed that the feeling with which we made the remark in the first place has faded .
The pathetic evidence is no longer before us ; ;
and we are now so fatigued in body and mind that feeling is , as we say , quite dead .
In these circumstances , since what was expressed by the remark when first made is , on the theory before us , simply absent , the remark now expresses nothing .
It is as empty as the word `` Hurrah '' would be when there was no enthusiasm behind it .
And this seems to me untrue .
When we repeat the remark that such suffering was a bad thing , the feeling with which we made it last week may be at or near the vanishing point , but if we were asked whether we meant to say what we did before , we should certainly answer Yes .
We should say that we made our point with feeling the first time and little or no feeling the second time , but that it was the same point we were making .
And if we can see that what we meant to say remains the same , while the feeling varies from intensity to near zero , it is not the feeling that we primarily meant to express .
I come now to a fourth consideration .
We all believe that toward acts or effects of a certain kind one attitude is fitting and another not ; ;
but on the theory before us such a belief would not make sense .
Broad and Ross have lately contended that this fitness is one of the main facts of ethics , and I suspect they are right .
But that is not exactly my point .
My point is this : whether there is such fitness or not , we all assume that there is , and if we do , we express in moral judgments more than the subjectivists say we do .
Let me illustrate .
In his novel The House Of The Dead , Dostoevsky tells of his experiences in a Siberian prison camp .
Whatever the unhappy inmates of such camps are like today , Dostoevsky's companions were about as grim a lot as can be imagined .
`` I have heard stories '' , he writes , `` of the most terrible , the most unnatural actions , of the most monstrous murders , told with the most spontaneous , childishly merry laughter '' .
Most of us would say that in this delight at the killing of others or the causing of suffering there is something very unfitting .
If we were asked why we thought so , we should say that these things involve great evil and are wrong , and that to take delight in what is evil or wrong is plainly unfitting .
Now on the subjectivist view , this answer is ruled out .
For before someone takes up an attitude toward death , suffering , or their infliction , they have no moral quality at all .
There is therefore nothing about them to which an attitude of approval or condemnation could be fitting .
They are in themselves neutral , and , so far as they get a moral quality , they get it only through being invested with it by the attitude of the onlooker .
But if that is true , why is any attitude more fitting than any other ? ?
Would applause , for example , be fitting if , apart from the applause , there were nothing good to applaud ? ?
Would condemnation be fitting if , independently of the condemnation , there were nothing bad to condemn ? ?
In such a case , any attitude would be as fitting or unfitting as any other , which means that the notion of fitness has lost all point .
Indeed , we are forced to go much farther .
If goodness and badness lie in attitudes only and hence are brought into being by them , those men who greeted death and misery with childishly merry laughter are taking the only sensible line .
If there is nothing evil in these things , if they get their moral complexion only from our feeling about them , why shouldn't they be greeted with a cheer ? ?
To greet them with repulsion would turn what before was neutral into something bad ; ;
it would needlessly bring badness into the world ; ;
and even on subjectivist assumptions that does not seem very bright .
On the other hand , to greet them with delight would convert what before was neutral into something good ; ;
it would bring goodness into the world .
The injured German veteran was a former miner , twenty-four years old , who had been wounded by shrapnel in the back of the head .
This resulted in damage to the occipital lobe and very probably to the left side of the cerebellum also .
In any event , the extraordinary result of this injury was that he became `` psychically blind '' , while at the same time , apparently , the sense of touch remained essentially intact .
Psychical blindness is a condition in which there is a total absence of visual memory-images , a condition in which , for example , one is unable to remember something just seen or to conjure up a memory-picture of the visible appearance of a well-known friend in his absence .
This circumstance in the patient's case plus the fact that his tactual capacity remained basically in sound working order constitutes its exceptional value for the problem at hand since the evidence presented by the authors is overwhelming that , when the patient closed his eyes , he had absolutely no spatial ( that is , third-dimensional ) awareness whatsoever .
The necessary inference , as the authors themselves interpret it , would seem to be this : `` ( ( 1 ) Spatial qualities are not among those grasped by the sense of touch , as such .
We do not arrive at spatial images by means of the sense of touch by itself .
( 2 ) Spatiality becomes part of the tactual sensation only by way of visual representations ; ;
that is , there is , in the true sense , only a visual space '' .
The underlying assumption , of course , is that only sight and touch enable us , in any precise and fully dependable way , to locate objects in space beyond us , the other senses being decidedly inferior , if not totally inadequate , in this regard .
This is an assumption with which few would be disposed to quarrel .
Therefore , if the sense of touch is functioning normally and there is a complete absence of spatial awareness in a psychically-blind person when the eyes are closed and an object is handled , the conclusion seems unavoidable that touch by itself cannot focus and take possession of the third-dimensionality of things and that actual sight or visual representations are necessary .
The force of the authors' analysis ( if indeed it has any force ) can be felt by the reader , I believe , only after three questions have been successfully answered .
( 1 ) What allows us to think that the patient had no third-dimensional representations when his eyes were closed ? ?
( 2 ) What evidence is there that he was psychically blind ? ?
( 3 ) How can we be sure that his sense of touch was not profoundly disturbed by his head injury ? ?
We shall consider these in the inverse order of their presentation .
Obviously , a satisfactory answer to the third question is imperative , if the argument is to get under way at all , for if there is any possibility of doubt whether the patient's tactual sensitivity had been impaired by the occipital lesion , any findings whatsoever in regard to the first question become completely ambiguous and fail altogether , of course , as evidence to establish the desired conclusion .
The answer the authors give to it , therefore , is of supreme importance .
It is as follows : `` The usual sensitivity tests showed that the specific qualities of skin-perceptiveness ( pressure , pain , temperature ) , as well as the kinesthetic sensations ( muscular feelings , feelings in the tendons and joints ) , were , as such , essentially intact , although they seemed , in comparison with normal reactions , to be somewhat diminished over the entire body .
The supposed tactual sense of spatial location and orientation in the patient and his ability to specify the location of a member , as well as the direction and scope of a movement , passively executed ( with one of his members ) , proved to have been , on the contrary , very considerably affected '' .
The authors insist , however , that these abnormalities in the sense of touch were due absolutely to no organic disorders in that sense faculty but rather to the injuries which the patient had sustained to the sense of sight .
First of all , what is their evidence that the tactual apparatus was fundamentally undamaged ? ?
( 1 ) When an object was placed in the patient's hand , he had no difficulty determining whether it was warm or cold , sharp or blunt , rough or smooth , flexible , soft , or hard ; ;
and he could tell , simply by the feel of it , whether it was made of wood , iron , cloth , rubber , and so on .
And he could recognize , by touch alone , articles which he had handled immediately before , even though they were altogether unfamiliar to him and could not be identified by him ; ;
that is , he was unaware what kind of objects they were or what their use was .
( 2 ) The patient attained an astonishing efficiency in a new trade .
Because of his brain injury and the extreme damage suffered to his sight , the patient had to train himself for a new line of work , that of a portfolio-maker , an occupation requiring a great deal of precision in the making of measurements and a fairly well-developed sense of form and contour .
It seems clear , when one takes into consideration the exceedingly defective eyesight of the patient ( we shall describe it in detail in connection with our second question , the one concerning the psychical blindness of the patient ) , that he had to rely on his sense of touch much more than the usual portfolio-maker and that consequently that faculty was most probably more sensitive to shape and size than that of a person with normal vision .
And so the authors conclude : `` The conduct of the patient in his every-day life and in his work , even more than the foregoing facts ( mentioned above under 1 ) , leave positively no room for doubt that the sense of touch , in the ordinary sense of the word , was unaffected ; ;
or , to put the same thing in physiological terms , that the performance-capacity of the tactual apparatus , from the periphery up to the tactual centers in the brain , -- that is , from one end to the other -- was unimpaired '' .
If the argument is accepted as essentially sound up to this point , it remains for us to consider whether the patient's difficulties in orienting himself spatially and in locating objects in space with the sense of touch can be explained by his defective visual condition .
But before we can do this , we must first find answers to our original questions 1 and 2 ; ;
then we shall perhaps be in a position to provide something like a complete answer to the question at hand .
In what ways , then , did the patient's psychical blindness manifest itself ? ?
He could not see objects as unified , self-contained , and organized figures , as a person does with normal vision .
The meaning of this , as we shall see , is that he had no fund of visual memory-images of objects as objects ; ;
and , therefore , he could not recognize even long-familiar things upon seeing them again .
Instead , he constantly became lost in parts and components of them , confused some of their details with those of neighboring objects , and so on , unless he allowed time to `` trace '' the object in question through minute movements of the head and hands and in this way to discover its contours .
According to his own testimony , he never actually saw things as shaped but only as generally amorphous `` blots '' of color of a more or less indefinite size ; ;
at their edges they slipped pretty much out of focus altogether .
But by the tracing procedure , he could , in a strange obviously kinesthetic manner , find the unseen form ; ;
could piece , as it were , the jumbled mass together into an organized whole and then recognize it as a man or a triangle or whatever it turned out to be .
If , however , the figure to be discerned were complicated , composed of several interlocking subfigures , and so on , even the tracing process failed him , and he could not focus even relatively simple shapes among its parts .
This meant , concretely , that the patient could not read at all without making writing-like movements of the head or body , became easily confused by `` hasher marks '' inserted between hand-written words and thus confused the mark for one of the letters , and could recognize a simple straight line or a curved one only by tracing it .
The patient himself denied that he had any visual imagery at all ; ;
and there was ample evidence of the following sort to corroborate him .
After a conversation with another man , he was able to recount practically everything that had been said but could not describe at all what the other man looked like .
Nor could he call up memory-pictures of close friends or relatives .
In short , both his own declarations and his figural blindness , when he looked at objects , seem to present undeniable evidence that he had simply no visual memory at all .
He was oblivious of the form of the object actually being viewed , precisely because he could not assign it to a visual shape , already learned and held in visual memory , as persons of normal vision do .
He could not recognize it ; ;
he was absolutely unfamiliar with it because he had no visual memory at all .
Therefore , his only recourse was to learn the shape all over again for each new visual experience of the same individual object or type of object ; ;
and this he could do only by going over its mass with the tracing procedure .
Then he might finally recognize it , apparently by combining the visual blot , actually being seen , with tactual feelings in the head or body accompanying the tracing movements .
This would mean , it can readily be seen , that , again , for each new visual experience , the tracing motions would have to be repeated because of the absence of visual imagery .
As one would surmise , the procedure , however , could be repeated with the same object or with the same type of object often enough , so that the corresponding visual blots and the merest beginning of the tracing movement would provide clues as to the actual shape , which the patient then immediately could determine by a kind of inference .
Men , trees , automobiles , houses , and so on -- objects continually confronted in everyday life -- had each its characteristic blot-appearance and became easily recognizable , at the very beginning of tracing , by an inference as to what each was .
Dice , for example , he inferred from black dots on a white surface .
He evidently could not actually see the corners of these objects , but their size and the dots gave them away .
And the authors give numerous instances of calculated guessing on the patient's part to show how large a role it played in his process of readapting himself and how proficient he became at it .
Often he seems even to have been able to guess correctly , without the tracing motions , solely on the basis of qualitative differences among the blot-like things which appeared in his visual experience .
Perhaps the very important question -- What is , then , exactly the role of kinesthetic sensations in the patient's ability to recognize forms and shapes by means of the tracing movements when he is actually looking at things ? ?
-- has now been raised in the reader's mind and in the following form .
If the patient can perceive figure kinesthetically when he cannot perceive it visually , then , it would seem , the sense of touch has immediate contact with the spatial aspects of things in independence of visual representations , at least in regard to two dimensions , and , as we shall see , even this much spatial awareness on the part of unaided touch is denied by the authors .
How , then , do the kinesthetic sensations function in all this ? ?
The authors set about answering this fundamental question through a detailed investigation of the patient's ability , tactually , ( 1 ) to perceive figure and ( 2 ) to locate objects in space , with his eyes closed ( or turned away from the object concerned ) .
Quite naturally , they make the investigation , first , by prohibiting the patient from making any movements at all and then , later , by repeating it and allowing the patient to move in any way he wanted to .
When the patient was not allowed to move his body in any way at all , the following striking results occurred .
Whenever artists , indeed , turned to actual representations or molded three-dimensional figures , which were rare down to 800 B.C. , they tended to reflect reality ( see Plate 6a , 9b ) ; ;
a schematic , abstract treatment of men and animals , by intent , rose only in the late eighth century .
To speak of this underlying view of the world is to embark upon matters of subjective judgment .
At the least , however , one may conclude that Geometric potters sensed a logical order ; ;
their principles of composition stand very close to those which appear in the Homeric epics and the hexameter line .
Their world , again , was a still simple , traditional age which was only slowly beginning to appreciate the complexity of life .
And perhaps an observer of the vases will not go too far in deducing that the outlook of their makers and users was basically stable and secure .
The storms of the past had died away , and the great upheaval which was to mark the following century had not yet begun to disturb men's minds .
Throughout the work of the later ninth century a calm , severe serenity displays itself .
In the vases this spirit may perhaps at times bore or repel one in its internal self-satisfaction , but the best of the Geometric pins have rightly been considered among the most beautiful ever made in the Greek world .
The ninth century was in its artistic work `` the spiritually freest and most self-sufficient between past and future '' , and the loving skill spent by its artists upon their products is a testimonial to their sense that what they were doing was important and was appreciated .
The Aegean in 800 B.C.
Geometric pottery has not yet received the thorough , detailed study which it deserves , partly because the task is a mammoth one and partly because some of its local manifestations , as at Argos , are only now coming to light .
From even a cursory inspection of its many aspects , however , the historian can deduce several fundamental conclusions about the progress of the Aegean world down to 800 B.C.
.
The general intellectual outlook which had appeared in the eleventh century was now consolidated to a significant degree .
Much which was in embryo in 1000 had become reasonably well developed by 800 .
In this process the Minoan-Mycenaean inheritance had been transmuted or finally rejected ; ;
the Aegean world which had existed before 1000 differed from that which rises more clearly in our vision after 800 .
Those modern scholars who urge that we must keep in mind the fundamental continuity of Aegean development from earliest times -- granted occasional irruptions of peoples and ideas from outside -- are correct ; ;
but all too many observers have been misled by this fact into minimizing the degree of change which took place in the early first millennium .
The focus of novelty in this world now lay in the south-eastern districts of the Greek mainland , and by 800 virtually the entire Aegean , always excepting its northern shores , had accepted the Geometric style of pottery .
While Protogeometric vases usually turn up , especially outside Greece proper , together with as many or more examples of local stamp , these `` non-Greek '' patterns had mostly vanished by the later ninth century .
In their place came local variations within the common style -- tentative , as it were , in Protogeometric products but truly distinct and sharply defined as the Geometric spirit developed .
Attica , though important , was not the only teacher of this age .
One can take a vase of about 800 B.C. and , without any knowledge of its place of origin , venture to assign it to a specific area ; ;
imitation and borrowing of motifs now become ascertainable .
The potters of the Aegean islands thus stood apart from those of the mainland , and in Greece itself Argive , Corinthian , Attic , Boeotian , and other Geometric sequences have each their own hallmarks .
These local variations were to become ever sharper in the next century and a half .
The same conclusions can be drawn from the other physical evidence of the Dark ages , from linguistic distribution , and from the survivals of early social , political , and religious patterns into later ages .
By 800 B.C. the Aegean was an area of common tongue and of common culture .
On these pillars rested that solid basis for life and thought which was soon to be manifested in the remarkably unlimited ken of the Iliad .
Everywhere within the common pattern , however , one finds local diversity ; ;
Greek history and culture were enduringly fertilized , and plagued , by the interplay of these conjoined yet opposed factors .
Further we cannot go , for the Dark ages deserve their name .
Many aspects of civilization were not yet sufficiently crystallized to find expression , nor could the simple economic and social foundations of this world support a lofty structure .
The epic poems , the consolidation of the Greek pantheon , the rise of firm political units , the self-awareness which could permit painted and sculptured representations of men -- all these had to await the progress of following decades .
What we have seen in this chapter , we have seen only dimly , and yet the results , however general , are worth the search .
These are the centuries in which the inhabitants of the Aegean world settled firmly into their minds and into their institutions the foundations of the Hellenic outlook , independent of outside forces .
To interpret , indeed , the era from 1000 to 800 as a period mainly of consolidation may be a necessary but unfortunate defect born of our lack of detailed information ; ;
if we could see more deeply , we probably would find many side issues and wrong turnings which came to an end within the period .
The historian can only point out those lines which were major enough to find reflection in our limited evidence , and must hope that future excavations will enrich our understanding .
Throughout the Dark ages , it is clear , the Greek world had been developing slowly but consistently .
The pace could now be accelerated , for the inhabitants of the Aegean stood on firm ground .
Chapter 5 the early eighth century
the landscape of Greek history broadens widely , and rather abruptly , in the eighth century B.C. , the age of Homer's `` rosy-fingered Dawn '' .
The first slanting rays of the new day cannot yet dispel all the dark shadows which lie across the Aegean world ; ;
but our evidence grows considerably in variety and shows more unmistakably some of the lines of change .
For this period , as for earlier centuries , pottery remains the most secure source ; ;
the ceramic material of the age is more abundant , more diversified , and more indicative of the hopes and fears of its makers , who begin to show scenes of human life and death .
Figurines and simple chapels presage the emergence of sculpture and architecture in Greece ; ;
objects in gold , ivory , and bronze grow more numerous .
Since writing was practiced in the Aegean before the end of the century , we may hope that the details of tradition will now be occasionally useful .
Though it is not easy to apply the evidence of the Iliad to any specific era , this marvelous product of the epic tradition had certainly taken definitive shape by 750 .
The Dipylon Geometric pottery of Athens and the Iliad are amazing manifestations of the inherent potentialities of Greek civilization ; ;
but both were among the last products of a phase which was ending .
Greek civilization was swirling toward its great revolution , in which the developed qualities of the Hellenic outlook were suddenly to break forth .
The revolution was well under way before 700 B.C. , and premonitory signs go back virtually across the century .
The era , however , is Janus-faced .
While many tokens point forward , the main achievements stand as a culmination of the simple patterns of the Dark ages .
The dominant pottery of the century was Geometric ; ;
political organization revolved about the basileis ; ;
trade was just beginning to expand ; ;
the gods who protected the Greek countryside were only now putting on their sharply anthropomorphic dress .
The modern student , who knows what was to come next , is likely to place first the factors of change which are visible in the eighth century .
Not all men of the period would have accepted this emphasis .
Many potters clung to the past the more determinedly as they were confronted with radically new ideas ; ;
the poet of the Iliad deliberately archaized .
Although it is not possible to sunder old and new in this era , I shall consider in the present chapter primarily the first decades of the eighth century and shall interpret them as an apogee of the first stage of Greek civilization .
On this principle of division I must postpone the evolution of sculpture , architecture , society , and politics ; ;
for the developments in these areas make sense only if they are connected to the age of revolution itself .
The growing contacts between Aegean and Orient are also a phase which should be linked primarily to the remarkable broadening of Hellenic culture after 750 .
We shall not be able entirely to pass over these connections to the East as we consider Ripe Geometric pottery , the epic and the myth , and the religious evolution of early Greece ; ;
the important point , however , is that these magnificent achievements , unlike those of later decades , were only incidentally influenced by Oriental models .
The antecedents of Dipylon vases and of the Iliad lie in the Aegean past .
Dipylon pottery
the pottery of the first half of the eighth century is commonly called Ripe Geometric .
The severe yet harmonious vases of the previous fifty years , the Strong Geometric style of the late ninth century , display as firm a mastery of the principles underlying Geometric pottery ; ;
but artists now were ready to refine and elaborate their inheritance .
The vases which resulted had different shapes , far more complex decoration , and a larger sense of style .
Beyond the aesthetic and technical aspects of this expansion we must consider the change in pottery style on broader lines .
In earlier centuries men had had enough to do in rebuilding a fundamental sense of order after chaos .
They had had to work on very simple foundations and had not dared to give rein to impulses .
The potters , in particular , had virtually eschewed freehand drawing , elaborate motifs , and the curving lines of nature , while yet expressing a belief that there was order in the universe .
In their vases were embodied the basic aesthetic and logical characteristics of Greek civilization , at first hesitantly in Protogeometric work , and then more confidently in the initial stages of the Geometric style .
By 800 social and cultural security had been achieved , at least on a simple plane ; ;
it was time to take bigger steps , to venture on experiments .
Ripe Geometric potters continued to employ the old syntax of ornaments and shapes and made use of the well-defined though limited range of motifs which they had inherited .
In these respects the vases of the early eighth century represent a culmination of earlier lines of progress .
To the ancestral lore , however , new materials were added .
Painters left less and less of a vase in a plain dark color ; ;
instead they divided the surface into many bands or covered it by all-over patterns into which freehand drawing began to creep .
Wavy lines , feather-like patterns , rosettes of indefinitely floral nature , birds either singly or in stylized rows , animals in solemn frieze bands ( see Plates 11 - 12 ) -- all these turned up in the more developed fabrics as preliminary signs that the potters were broadening their gaze .
The rows of animals and birds , in particular , suggest awareness of Oriental animal friezes , transmitted perhaps via Syrian silver bowls and textiles , but the specific forms of these rows on local vases and metal products are nonetheless Greek .
Though the spread of this type of decoration in the Aegean has not yet been precisely determined , it seems to appear first in the Cyclades , which were among the leading exporters of pottery throughout the century .
As the material at the command of the potters grew and the volume of their production increased , the local variations within a common style became more evident .
Plate 12 illustrates four examples , which are Ripe or Late Geometric work of common spirit but of different schools .
Cook had discovered a beef in his possession a few days earlier and , when he could not show the hide , arrested him .
Thinking the evidence insufficient to get a conviction , he later released him .
Even while suffering the trip to his home , Cook swore to Moore and Lane that he would kill the Indian .
Three weeks later , following his recovery , armed with a writ issued by the Catskill justice on affidavits prepared by the district attorney , Cook and Russell rode to arrest Martinez .
Arriving at daybreak , they found Julio in his corral and demanded that he surrender .
Instead , he whirled and ran to his house for a gun , forcing them to kill him , Cook reported .
Both Cook's and Russell's lives were threatened by the Mexicans following the killing , but the company officers felt that in the end , it would serve to quiet them despite their immediate emotion .
General manager Pels even suggested that it might be wise to keep the Mexicans in suspense rather than accept their offers to sell out and move away , and try to have a few punished .
On February 17 , Russell and Cook were sent to the Pena Flor community on the Vermejo to see about renting out ranches the company had purchased .
While talking with Julian M. Beall , Francisco Archuleta and Juan Marcus appeared , both heavily armed , and after watching the house for a while , rode away .
It was nearly sundown before they finished the business with Beall and began riding down the stream .
They had traveled only a short distance when they spotted five Mexicans riding along a horse-trail across the stream just ahead of them .
Suspecting an ambush , the two deputies decided to ride up a side canyon taking a short cut into Catskill .
After spending two nights ( Wednesday and Thursday ) in Catskill , the deputies again headed for the Vermejo to finish their business .
They stayed with a rancher Friday night and by eleven o'clock Saturday morning passed the old Garnett Lee ranch .
Half a mile below at the mouth of Salyer's Canyon was an old ranch that the company had purchased from A. J. Armstrong , occupied by a Mexican , his wife , and an old trapper .
There were three houses in Salyer's Canyon just at the foot of a low bluff , the road winding along the top , entering above , and then passing down in front of the houses , thence to the Vermejo .
To the west of this road was another low bluff , forty or fifty feet high , covered with scrub oak and other brush .
As they were riding along this winding road on the bench of land between the two bluffs , a volley of rifle fire suddenly crashed around the two officers .
Not a bullet touched Cook who was nearer the ambush , but one hit Russell in the leg and another broke his arm , passing on through his body .
With the first reports , Russell's horse wheeled to the right and ran towards the buildings while Cook , followed by a hail of bullets , raced towards the arroyo of Salyer's Canyon immediately in front of him , just reaching it as his horse fell .
Grabbing his Winchester from its sheath , Cook prepared to fight from behind the arroyo bank .
Bullets were so thick , throwing sand in his face , that he found it difficult to return the fire .
Noticing Russell's horse in front of the long log building , he assumed his friend had slipped inside and would be able to put up a good fight , so he began working his way down the ditch to join him .
At a very shallow place , two Mexicans rushed into the open for a shot .
Dropping to one knee , Cook felled one , and the other struggled off with his comrade , sending no further fire in his direction .
Just before leaving the arroyo where he was partially concealed , he did hear shots down at the house .
Russell had reached the house as Cook surmised , dismounted , but just as the old trapper opened the door to receive him , he fell into the trapper's arms -- dead .
A bullet fired by one of the Mexicans hiding in a little chicken house had passed through his head , tearing a hole two-inches square on the outgoing side .
Finding him dead , Cook caught Russell's horse and rode to the cattle foreman's house to report the incident and request bloodhounds to trail the assassins .
Before daylight Sunday morning , a posse of twenty-three men under the leadership of Deputy Sheriff Frank MacPherson of Catskill followed the trail to the house of Francisco Chaves , where 100 to 150 Mexicans had gathered .
MacPherson boldly approached the fortified adobe house and demanded entrance .
The men inside informed him that they had some wounded men among them but he would not be allowed to see them even though he offered medical aid .
The officer demanded the names of the injured men ; ;
the Mexicans not only refused to give them , but told the possemen if they wanted a fight they could have it .
Since the strength of the Mexicans had been underrated , too small a posse had been collected , and since the deputy had not been provided with search warrants , MacPherson and his men decided it was much wiser to withdraw .
The posse's retreat encouraged the Mexicans to be overbearing and impudent .
During the following week , six tons of hay belonging to one rancher were burned ; ;
some buildings , farm tools , two horses , plows , and hay owned by Bonito Lavato , a friendly interpreter for the company , and Pedro Chavez' hay were stolen or destroyed ; ;
and a store was broken into and robbed .
District Attorney M. W. Mills warned that he would vigorously prosecute persons caught committing these crimes or carrying arms -- he just didn't catch anyone .
Increasing threats on his life finally convinced Cook that he should leave New Mexico .
His friends advised that it would be only a question of time until either the Mexicans killed him by ambuscade or he would be compelled to kill them in self-defense , perpetuating the troubles .
By early summer , he wrote from Laramie that he was suffering from the wound inflicted in the ambush and was in a bad way financially , so Pels sent him a draft for $100 , warning that it was still not wise for him to return .
Pels also sent a check for $100 to Russell's widow and had a white marble monument erected on his grave .
Cattle stealing and killing , again serious during the spring of 1891 , placed the land grant company officers in a perplexing position .
They were reluctant to appoint sheriffs to protect the property , thus running the risk of creating disturbances such as that on the Vermejo , and yet the cowboys protested that they got no salary for arresting cattle thieves and running the risk of being shot .
And the law virtually ignored the situation .
The judge became ill just as the Colfax District Court convened , no substitute was brought in , no criminal cases heard , only 5 out of 122 cases docketed were tried , and court adjourned sine die after sitting a few days instead of the usual three weeks .
Pels complained : `` Litigants and witnesses were put to the expense and inconvenience of going long distances to transact business ; ;
public money spent ; ;
justice delayed ; ;
nothing accomplished , and the whole distribution of justice in this county seems to be an absolute farce '' .
Word reached the company that the man behind these depredations was Manuel Gonzales , a man with many followers , including a number who were kept in line through fear of him .
Although wanted by the sheriff for killing an old man named Asher Jones , the warrant for his arrest had never been served .
On May 19 , a deputy sheriff's posse of eight men left Maxwell City and rode thirty-five miles up the Vermejo where they were joined by Juan Jose Martinez .
By 3:00 A.M. they reached his house and found it vacant .
When they were refused entrance to his brother's house nearby , they smashed down the door , broke the window , and threw lighted clothes wet with kerosene into the room .
Still there was no Gonzales and the family would say nothing .
About 300 yards up the creek was a cluster of Mexican houses containing six rooms in the form of a square .
While prowling around these buildings , two of the posse recognized the voice of Gonzales speaking to the people inside .
He was promised that no harm would befall him if he would come out , but he cursed and replied that he would shoot any man coming near the door .
The posse then asked that he send out the women and children as the building would be fired or torn down over his head if necessary to take him dead or alive .
Again he refused .
In deadly earnest , the besiegers methodically stripped away portions of the roof and tossed lighted rags inside , only to have most stamped out by the women as soon as they hit the floor .
When it became obvious that he could stay inside no longer , taking a thousand to one chance Gonzales rushed outside , square against the muzzle of a Winchester .
Shot near the heart , he turned to one side and plunged for a door to another room several feet away , three bullets following him .
As he pushed open the door he fell on his face , one of his comrades pulling him inside .
Not realizing the seriousness of the wound , the besiegers warned that if he did not surrender the house would be burned down around him .
Receiving no answer , they set the fire .
When the house was about half consumed , his comrade ran to the door and threw up his hands , declaring repeatedly that he did not know the whereabouts of Manuel .
Finding it true that he was not inside , the deputies returned to the first house and tore holes through the side and the roof until they could see a body on the bed covered by a blanket .
Several slugs fired into the bed jerked aside the blanket to reveal an apparently lifeless hand .
Shot six or eight times the body was draped with Russell's pistol , belt , and cartridges .
There was no extra horse so it was left to his comrades who , though numbering in the fifties , had stood around on the hillside nearby without firing a shot during the entire attack .
Early the next morning , a Mexican telephoned Pels that Celso Chavez , one of the posse members , was surrounded by ten Mexicans at his father's home on the upper Vermejo .
The sheriff and District Attorney Mills hastily swore out a number of warrants against men who had been riding about armed , according to signed statements by Chavez and Dr. I. P. George , and ordered Deputy Barney Clark of Raton to rescue the posseman .
Traveling all night , Clark and twelve men arrived at about seven o'clock May 22 .
Occasionally they heard gun-shot signals and a number of horsemen were sighted on the hills , disappearing at the posse's approach .
A Mexican justice of the peace had issue a writ against Chavez for taking part in the `` murder '' of Manuel Gonzales so he and his father were anxious to be taken out of danger .
The men helped them gather their belongings and escorted them to Raton along with three other families desiring to leave .
The ten or more dangerous parties singled out for prosecution were still at large , and Pels realized that if these men entrenched themselves in their adobe houses , defending themselves through loopholes , it would be most difficult to capture them .
Thus he wired J. P. Lower and Sons of Denver : `` Have you any percussion hand grenades for throwing in a house or across a well loaded with balls or shrapnel shot ? ?
If not , how long to order and what is the price '' ? ?
He wisely decided that it would be foolish to create a disturbance during the coming roundup , particularly since the Mexicans were on their guard .
His problem then became one of restraining the American fighters who wanted to clean out the Vermejo by force immediately .
The plant was located west of the Battenkill and south of the location of the former electric light plant .
The Manchester Depot Sewer Company issued 214 shares of stock at $10 each for construction of a sewer in that locality , and assessments were made for its maintenance .
It has given considerable trouble at times and empties right into the Battenkill .
Fire District No. 1 discussed its possible purchase in 1945 , but considered it an unwise investment .
The sewer on Bonnet Street was constructed when there were only a few houses on the street .
As new homes were built they were connected so that all residences south of School Street are served by it .
B. J. Connell is the present treasurer and manager .
The 1946 town meeting voted to have the Selectmen appoint a committee to investigate and report on the feasibility of some system of sewage disposal and a disposal plant to serve Manchester Center , Depot , and Way's Lane .
The committee submitted a report signed by Louis Martin and Leon Wiley with a map published in the 1946 town report .
The layout of the sewer lines was designed by Henry W. Taylor , who was the engineer for the Manchester Village disposal plant .
No figures were submitted with the report and no action was taken on it by the town .
The 1958 town meeting directed town authorities to seek federal and state funds with which to conduct a preliminary survey of a proposed sewage plant with its attendant facilities .
The final step was a vote for a $230,000 bond issue for the construction of a sewage system by the 1959 town meeting , later confirmed by a two-thirds vote at a special town meeting June 21 , 1960 .
There the matter stands with the prospect that soon Manchester may be removed from the roster of towns contributing raw sewage to its main streams .
Telephone and telegraph
Manchester's unusual interest in telegraphy has often been attributed to the fact that the Rev. J. D. Wickham , headmaster of Burr and Burton Seminary , was a personal friend and correspondent of the inventor , Samuel F. B. Morse .
At any rate , Manchester did not lag far behind the first commercial system which was set up in 1844 between Baltimore and Washington .
In 1846 Matthew B. Goodwin , jeweler and watchmaker , became the town's first telegrapher in a dwelling he built for himself and his business `` two doors north of the Equinox House '' or `` one door north of the Bank , Manchester , Vermont '' .
Goodwin was telegrapher for the `` American Telegraph Company '' and the `` Troy and Canada Junction Telegraph Company '' .
Shares of capital stock at $15 each in the latter company were payable at the Bank of Manchester or at various other Vermont banks .
A message of less than fifteen words to Bennington cost twenty-five cents .
By 1871 L. C. Orvis , manager of the `` Western Union Telegraph Company '' , expressed willingness to send emergency telegrams on Sundays from his Village drugstore .
Orvis even needed to hire an assistant , Clark J. Wait .
The Manchester Journal commented editorially on the surprising amount of local telegraphic business .
In the fall of 1878 , the `` Popular Telegraph Line '' was established between Manchester and Factory Point by the owners , Paul W. Orvis , Henry Gray , J. N. Hard , and Clark J. Wait .
The line soon lived up to its name , as local messages of moderate length could be sent for a dime and the company was quickly able to declare very liberal dividends on its capital stock .
In 1879 the same Clark Wait , with H. H. Holley of South Dorset , formed the `` American Telegraph Line '' , extending from Manchester Depot via Factory Point and South Dorset to Dorset .
Besides being most convenient , the line `` soon proved a good investment for the owners '' .
Telegraphers at the Depot at this time were Aaron C. Burr and Mark Manley of `` Burr and Manley '' , dealers in lumber and dry goods .
Early equipment was very flimsy ; ;
the smallest gusts of wind toppled poles , making communications impossible .
But companies continued to spring up .
By 1883 the `` Battenkill Telegraph Company '' was in existence and Alvin Pettibone was its president .
Operating in 1887 was the `` Valley Telegraph Line '' , officers of which were E. C. Orvis , president ; ;
H. K. Fowler , vice-president and secretary ; ;
J. N. Hard , treasurer ; ;
F. H. Walker , superintendent ; ;
H. S. Walker , assistant superintendent .
Two companies now had headquarters with Clark J. Wait , who by then had his own drugstore at Factory Point -- the `` Northern Union Telegraph Company '' and the `` Western Union '' .
Operators were Arthur Koop and Norman Taylor .
Still existing on a `` Northern Union '' telegraph form is a typical peremptory message from Peru grocer J. J. Hapgood to Burton and Graves' store in Manchester -- `` Get and send by stage four pounds best Porterhouse or serloin stake , for Mrs. Hapgood send six sweet oranges '' .
About 1888 J. E. McNaughton of Barnumville and E. G. Bacon became proprietors of the `` Green Mountain Telegraph Company '' , connecting all offices on the Western Union line and extending over the mountain from Barnumville to Peru , Londonderry , South Londonderry , Lowell Lake , Windham , North Windham , Grafton , Cambridgeport , Saxton's River , and Bellows Falls .
From 1896 until 1910 John H. Whipple was manager of Western Union at the Center in the drugstore he purchased from Clark Wait .
The Village office of Western Union with George Towsley as manager and telegrapher continued in Hard's drugstore until 1905 .
During the summers , Towsley often needed the assistance of a company operator .
These were the years when people flocked to Manchester not only to play golf , which had come into vogue , but also to witness the Ekwanok Country Club tournaments .
New Yorkers were kept informed of scores by reporters who telegraphed fifteen to twenty thousand words daily to the metropolitan newspapers .
This boosted local telegraph business and Manchester basked in all the free advertising .
In 1914 when the town was chosen for the U. S. Amateur Golf tournament , a representative hurried here from the Boston manager's office .
In his wake came the District Traffic Supervisor and the cream of the telegraphic profession , ten of Boston's best , chosen for their long experience and thorough knowledge of golf .
During that tournament alone , some 250,000 words winged their way out of Manchester .
The old Morse system was replaced locally by the Simplex modern automatic method in 1929 , when Ellamae Heckman ( Wilcox ) was manager of the Western Union office .
During summers , business was so brisk that Mrs. Wilcox had two assistants and a messenger .
She was succeeded by Clarence Goyette .
Since that time the telegraph office has shifted in location from the railroad station at the Depot and shops at the Center back to the town clerk's office and drugstore at the Village .
After being located for some years in the Village at the Equinox Pharmacy under the supervision of Mrs. Harry Mercier , it is presently located in the Hill and Dale Shop , Manchester Center .
The first known telephone line in Manchester was established in July 1883 between Burr and Manley's store at Manchester Depot and the Kent and Root Marble Company in South Dorset .
This was extended the following year to include the railroad station agent's office and Thayer's Hotel at Factory Point .
In November 1887 a line connecting several dwelling houses in Dorset was extended to Manchester Depot .
Telephone wires from Louis Dufresne's house in East Manchester to the Dufresne lumber job near Bourn Pond were up about 1895 .
Eber L. Taylor of Manchester Depot recorded the setting of phone poles in East Dorset and Barnumville in his diary for 1906 .
These must have been for local calls strictly , as in May 1900 the `` only long distance telephone '' in town was transferred from C. B. Carleton's to Young's shoe store .
A small single switchboard was installed in the Village over Woodcock's hardware store ( later E. H. Hemenway's ) .
George Woodcock was manager and troubleshooter ; ;
Elizabeth Way was the first operator ; ;
and a night operator was also employed .
Anyone fortunate enough to have one of those early phones advertised the fact along with the telephone number in the Manchester Journal .
In 1918 the New England Telephone Company began erecting a building to house its operations on the corner of U. S. Rte. 7 and what is now Memorial Avenue at Manchester Center .
Service running through Barnumville and to Bennington County towns east of the mountains was in the hands of the `` Gleason Telephone Company '' in 1925 , but major supervision of telephone lines in Manchester was with the New England Telephone and Telegraph Company , which eventually gained all control .
More aerial and underground equipment was installed as well as office improvements to take care of the expanding business .
In 1931 Mrs. F. H. Briggs , agent and chief operator , who was to retire in 1946 with thirty years' service , led agency offices in sales for the year with $2,490 .
William Hitchcock , who retired in 1938 , was a veteran of thirty-four years' local service .
Another veteran telephone operator was Edith Fleming Blackmer , who had been in the office forty years at the time of her death in 1960 .
In 1932 Dorset received its own exchange , which made business easier for the Manchester office , but it was not until February 1953 that area service was extended to include Manchester and Dorset .
This eliminated toll calls between the two towns .
Within a month , calls were up seventy per cent .
Electric power
electricity plays such an important part in community life today that it is difficult to envision a time when current was not available for daily use .
Yet one has to go back only some sixty years .
The first mention of an electric plant in Manchester seems to be one installed in Reuben Colvin's and Houghton's gristmill on the West Branch in Factory Point .
No records are available as to the date or extent of installation , but it may have been in 1896 .
On June 14 , 1900 the Manchester Journal reported that an electrical engineer was installing an electric light plant for Edward S. Isham at `` Ormsby Hill '' .
This was working by the end of August and giving satisfactory service .
In November 1900 surveying was done under John Marsden on the east mountains to ascertain if it would be possible to get sufficient water and fall to operate an electric power plant .
Nothing came of it , perhaps due to lack of opportunity for water storage .
The next step was construction by the Manchester Light and Power Company of a plant on the west bank of the Battenkill south of Union Street bridge .
This was nearly completed May 23 , 1901 with a promise of lights by June 10 , but the first light did not go on until September 28 .
It was at the end of the sidewalk in front of the Dellwood Cemetery cottage .
The first directors of the Manchester Light and Power Company were John Marsden , M. L. Manley , William F. Orvis , George Smith , and John Blackmer .
The officers were John Marsden , president ; ;
John C. Blackmer , vice-president ; ;
George Smith , treasurer ; ;
and William F. Orvis , secretary .
Marsden was manager of the company for ten years and manager of its successor company , the Colonial Light and Power Company , for one year .
At about the time the Marsden enterprise was getting under way , the Vail Light and Lumber Company started construction of a chair stock factory on the site of the present Bennington Co-operative Creamery , intending to use its surplus power for generating electricity .
Manchester then had two competing power companies until 1904 , when the Manchester Light and Power Company purchased the transmission system of the Vail Company .
This was fortunate , as the Vail plant burned in 1905 .
The Colonial Light and Power Company was succeeded by the Vermont Hydro-Electric Corporation , which in turn was absorbed by the Central Vermont Public Service Corporation .
The latter now furnishes the area with electricity distributed from a modern sub-station at Manchester Depot which was put into operation February 19 , 1930 and was improved in January 1942 by the installation of larger transformers .
For a time following the abandonment of the local plant , electric current for Manchester was brought in from the south with an emergency tie-in with the Vermont Marble Company system to the north .
Some who have written on Utopia have treated it as `` a learned diversion of a learned world '' , `` a phantasy with which More amused himself '' , `` a holiday work , a spontaneous overflow of intellectual high spirits , a revel of debate , paradox , comedy and invention '' .
With respect to this view , two points are worth making .
First , it appears to be based on the fact that on its title page Utopia is described as `` festivus '' , `` gay '' .
It overlooks the other fact that it is described as `` Nec minus salutaris quam festivus '' , `` no less salutary than gay '' .
It also overlooks the fact that in a rational lexicon , and quite clearly in More's lexicon , the opposite of serious is not gay but frivolous , and the opposite of gay is not serious but solemn .
More believed that a man could be both serious and gay .
That a writer who is gay cannot be serious is a common professional illusion , sedulously fostered by all too many academics who mistakenly believe that their frivolous efforts should be taken seriously because they are expressed with that dreary solemnity which is the only mode of expression their authors are capable of .
Secondly , to find a learned diversion and a pleasing joke in More's account of the stupid brutalities of early sixteenth century wars , of the anguish of the poor and dispossessed , of the insolence and cruelty of the rich and powerful requires a callousness toward suffering and sin that would be surprising in a moral imbecile and most surprising in More himself .
Indeed , it is even surprising in the Canon of Christ Church and Regius Professor of Ecclesiastical History , who fathered this most peculiar view , and in the brilliant Professor of Medieval and Renaissance English at Cambridge , who inherited it and is now its most eminent proponent .
But to return to the main line of our inquiry , it is doubtful that Utopia is still widely read because More was medieval or even because he was a martyr -- indeed , it is likely that these days many who read Utopia with interest do not even know that its author was a martyr .
Utopia is still widely read because in a sense More stood on the margin of modernity .
And if he did stand on the margins of modernity , it was not in dying a martyr for such unity as Papal supremacy might be able to force on Western Christendom .
It was not even in writing Latin epigrams , sometimes bawdy ones , or in translating Lucian from Greek into Latin or in defending the study of Greek against the attack of conservative academics , or in attacking the conservative theologians who opposed Erasmus's philological study of the New Testament .
Similar literary exercises were the common doings of a Christian humanist of the first two decades of the sixteenth century .
Had More's writings been wholly limited to such exercises , they would be almost as dimly remembered as those of a dozen or so other authors living in his time , whose works tenuously survive in the minds of the few hundred scholars who each decade in pursuit of their very specialized occasions read those works .
More stands on the margins of modernity for one reason alone -- because he wrote Utopia .
And the evidence that he does , indeed , stand there derives quite simply from the vigorous interest with which rather casual readers have responded to that book for the past century or so .
Only one other contemporary of More's evokes so immediate and direct a response , and only one other contemporary work -- Niccolo Machiavelli and The Prince .
Can we discover what it is in Utopia that has evoked this response ? ?
Remember that in seeking the modern in Utopia we do not deny the existence of the medieval and the Renaissance there ; ;
we do not even need to commit ourselves to assessing on the same inconceivable scale the relative importance of the medieval , the Renaissance , and the modern .
The medieval was the most important to Chambers because he sought to place Thomas More , the author of Utopia , in some intelligible relation with St. Thomas More , the martyr .
To others whose concern it is to penetrate the significance of Christian Humanism , the Renaissance elements are of primary concern .
But here we have a distinctly modern preoccupation ; ;
we want to know why that book has kept on selling the way it has ; ;
we want to know what is perennially new about Utopia .
What is new about it ? ?
To that question the answer is simple ; ;
it can be made in two words , Utopian communism .
But it is an answer which opens the door wide to an onrush of objections and denials .
Surely there is nothing new about communism .
We find it in Plato's Republic , and in Utopia More acknowledges his debt to that book .
We find it in that `` common way of life pleasing to Christ and still in use among the truest societies of Christians '' , that is , the better monasteries which made it easier to convert the Utopians to Christianity .
We find it in the later Stoic conception of man's natural condition which included the community of all possessions .
This conception was taken up by the early Church Fathers and by canon lawyers and theologians in the Middle Ages ; ;
and More was far too well read not to have come across it in one or several of the forms thus given it .
But although the idea of communism is very old even in More's day and did not spring full-clad from his imagination in 1515 , it is not communism as such that we are concerned with .
We are concerned not with the genus communism nor with other species of the genus : Platonic , Stoic , early Christian , monastic , canonist or theological communism ; ;
we are concerned with Utopian communism -- that is , simply communism as it appears in the imaginary commonwealth of Utopia , as More conceived it .
Perhaps one way to sharpen our sense of the modernity of Utopian communism is to contrast it with the principal earlier types of communistic theory .
We will achieve a more vivid sense of what it is by realizing what it is not .
In Plato's Republic communism is -- to speak anachronistically -- a communism of Janissaries .
Its function is to separate from the base ruled mass , among whom private ownership prevails , the governing warrior elite .
Moreover , it is too readily forgotten that in the Republic what gave the initial impetus to Plato's excursus into the construction of an imaginary commonwealth with its ruling-class communism of goods , wives , and children , was his quest for a canon for the proper ordering of the individual human psyche ; ;
and it is to this problem that the Republic ultimately returns .
In More's Utopia communism is not a means of separating out a warrior elite from the lumpish mass .
Utopian communism applies to all Utopians .
And in the economy of the book it is not peripheral but central .
The concern of Utopia is with the optimo reipublicae statu , the best ordering of a civil society ; ;
and it is again and again made clear that Utopian communism provides the institutional array indispensible to that best ordering .
To derive Utopian communism from the Jerusalem Christian community of the apostolic age or from its medieval successors-in-spirit , the monastic communities , is with an appropriate shift of adjectives , misleading in the same way as to derive it from Plato's Republic : in the Republic we have to do with an elite of physical and intellectual athletes , in the apostolic and monastic communities with an elite of spiritual and religious athletes .
The apostolic community was literally an elite : chosen by Christ himself .
And the monastic communities were supposed to be made up of volunteers selected only after a novitiate which would test their religious aptitude for monastic rigors , their spiritual athleticism .
Finally , the conception of the natural community of all possessions which originated with the Stoics was firmly fixed in a tradition by More's time , although it was not accepted by all the theologian-philosophers of the Middle Ages .
In that tradition communism lay a safe distance back in the age of innocence before the Fall of Man .
It did not serve to contrast the existing order of society with a possible alternative order , because the age of innocence was not a possible alternative once man had sinned .
The actual function of patristic communism was adequately set forth by St. Gregory almost a millenium before More wrote Utopia .
`` The soil is common to all men .
When we give the necessities of life to the poor , we restore to them what is already theirs .
We should think of it more as an act of justice than compassion '' .
Because community not severalty of property is the law of nature no man can assert an absolutely unalterable right to what is his .
Indeed , of all that is his every man is by nature and reason and therefore by conscience obligated to regard himself as a custodian .
He is a trustee for the common good , however feeble the safeguards which the positive or municipal law of property provides against his misuse of that share of the common fund , wisely or unwisely , entrusted to his keeping .
In contrast to this Stoic-patristic view , Utopia implies that the nature of man is such that to rely on individual conscience to supply the deficiencies of municipal law is to embark on the bottomless sea of human sinfulness in a sieve .
The Utopians brace conscience with legal sanctions .
In a properly ordered society the massive force of public law performs the function which in natural law theory ineptly is left altogether to a small voice so often still .
In all the respects just indicated Utopian communism differs from previous conceptions in which community of possessions and living plays a role .
Neither from one of these conceptions nor from a combination of them can it be deduced .
We do not deny originality to the Agamemnon because Aeschylus found the tales of the house of Atreus among the folk lore of the Greeks .
In a like sense whatever bits or shreds of previous conceptions one may find in it , Utopian communism remains , as an integral whole , original -- a new thing .
It is not merely a new thing ; ;
it is one of the very few new things in Utopia ; ;
most of the rest is medieval or humanist or part of an old tradition of social criticism .
But to say that at a moment in history something is new is not necessarily to say that it is modern ; ;
and for this statement the best evidence comes within the five years following the publication of Utopia , when Martin Luther elaborates a new perception of the nature of the Divine's encounter with man .
New , indeed , is Luther's perception , but not modern , as anyone knows who has ever tried to make intelligible to modern students what Luther was getting at .
Although Utopian communism is both new in 1516 and also modern , it is not modern communism or even modern socialism , as they exist or have ever existed in theory or in practice .
Consider the features of Utopian communism : generous public provision for the infirm ; ;
democratic and secret elections of all officers including priests , meals taken publicly in common refectories ; ;
a common habit or uniform prescribed for all citizens ; ;
even houses changed once a decade ; ;
six hours of manual labor a day for all but a handful of magistrates and scholars , and careful measures to prevent anyone from shirking ; ;
no private property , no money ; ;
no sort of pricing at all for any goods or services , and therefore no market in the economic sense of the term .
Whatever the merits of its intent , Utopian communism is far too naive , far too crude , to suit any modern socialist or communist .
It is not the details of Utopian communism that make Utopia modern , it is the spirit , the attitude of mind that informs those details .
What that spirit and attitude were we can best understand if we see more precisely how it contrasts with the communist tradition with the longest continuous history , the one which reached Christianity by the way of Stoicism through the Church Fathers of Late Antiquity .
During the Dorr trial the Democratic press condemned the proceedings and heralded Dorr as a martyr to the principles of the Declaration of Independence .
During the Brown trial , however , the state's most powerful Democratic newspaper , the Providence Daily Post , stated that Brown was a murderer , a man of blood , and that he and his associates , with the assistance of Republicans and Abolitionists , had plotted not only the liberation of the slaves but also the overthrow of state and federal governments .
The Providence Daily Journal answered the Daily Post by stating that the raid of John Brown was characteristic of Democratic acts of violence and that `` He was acting in direct opposition to the Republican Party , who proclaim as one of their cardinal principles that they do not interfere with slavery in the states '' .
The two major newspapers in Providence continued , throughout the crisis , to accuse each other of misrepresenting the facts and attempting to falsify history .
While the Daily Post continued to accuse Republicans and the Daily Journal continued to accuse Democrats , the Woonsocket Patriot complained that the Virginia authorities showed indecent and cowardly haste to condemn Brown and his men .
Editor Foss stated , `` Of their guilt there can be no doubt but they are entitled to sufficient time to prepare for trial , and a fair trial '' .
The Providence Daily Post thought that there were probably good reasons for the haste in which the trial was being conducted and that the only thing gained by a delay would be calmer feelings .
The Providence Daily Journal stated that although the guilt of Brown was evident , the South must guarantee him a fair trial to preserve domestic peace .
On October 31 , 1859 , John Brown was found guilty of treason against the state of Virginia , inciting slave rebellion , and murder .
For these crimes he was sentenced to be hanged in public on Friday , December 2 , 1859 .
Upon receiving the news , Northern writers , editors , and clergymen heaped accusations of murder on the Southern states , particularly Virginia .
Although Rhode Islanders were preparing for the state elections , they watched John Brown's trial with extreme interest .
On Wednesday morning , November 2 , 1859 , the Providence Daily Journal stated that although Brown justly deserved the extreme penalty , no man , however criminal , ought to suffer the penalty without a fair trial .
The editor's main criticism of the trial was the haste with which it was conducted .
The readers of the Providence Daily Post , however , learned that it was generally conceded that `` Old Brown '' had a fair trial .
Concerning the sentence the editor asked , `` What else can Virginia do than to hang the men who have defied her laws , organized treason , and butchered her citizens '' .
In the eastern section of the state the newspapers' reaction to Brown's trial and sentence were basically identical .
J. Wheaton Smith , editor of the Warren Telegraph stated that `` the ends of justice must be satisfied , a solitary example must be set , in order that all those misnamed philantropists , who , actuated by a blind zeal , dare to instigate riot , treason , and murder , may heed it and shape their future course accordingly '' .
The editor of the Newport Advertiser could discover no evidence of extenuating circumstances in the Brown trial which would warrant making an exception to the infliction of capital punishment .
In direct contrast to the other Rhode Island editors , Samuel S. Foss of the Woonsocket Patriot outwardly condemned the trial as being completely unfair .
Concerning the sentence , Foss wrote , `` If it be possible that mercy shall override vengeance and that John Brown's sentence shall be commuted to imprisonment , it would be well -- well for the country and for Virginia '' .
Despite the excitement being caused by the trial and sentence of John Brown , Rhode Islanders turned their attention to the state elections .
The state had elected Republican candidates in the past two years .
There was no doubt as to the control the Republican party exercised throughout the state .
If it failed on occasion to elect its candidates for general state offices by majorities , the failure was due to a lingering remnant of the Know-Nothing party , which called itself the American Republican party .
The American Republicans and the Republicans both nominated Lieutenant-Governor Turner for governor .
Elisha R. Potter was the Democratic candidate .
The results of the election of 1859 found Republican candidates not only winning the offices of governor and lieutenant-governor but also obtaining the two Congressional offices from the eastern and western sections of the state .
During the month of November hardly a day passed when there was not some mention of John Brown in the Rhode Island newspapers .
On November 7 , 1859 , the Providence Daily Journal reprinted a letter sent to John Brown from `` E. B. '' , a Quaker lady in Newport .
In reference to Brown's raid she wrote , `` though we are non-resistants and religiously believe it better to reform by moral and not by carnal weapons , we know thee was anemated by the most generous and philanthropic motives '' .
`` E. B. '' compared John Brown to Moses in that they were both acting to deliver millions from oppression .
In contrast to `` E. B. '' , most Rhode Islanders hardly thought of John Brown as being another Moses .
Most attempts to develop any sympathy for Brown and his actions found an unresponsive audience in Rhode Island .
On Wednesday evening , November 23 , 1859 , in Warren , Rev. Mark Trafton of New Bedford , gave a `` Mission of Sympathy '' lecture in which he favorably viewed the Harper's Ferry insurrection .
The Warren Telegraph stated that many of Rev. Trafton's remarks were inappropriate and savored strongly of radicalism and fanaticism .
In its account of the Trafton lecture , the Providence Daily Post said that the remarks of Rev. Trafton made the people indignant .
No sympathy or admiration for Brown could be found in the Providence Daily Post , for the editor claimed that there were a score of men in the state prison who were a thousand times more deserving of sympathy .
The Providence Daily Journal , however , stated that Brown's courage , bravery , and heroism `` in a good cause would make a man a martyr ; ;
it gives something of dignity even to a bad one '' .
The Woonsocket Patriot admitted that John Brown might deserve punishment or imprisonment `` but he should no more be hung than Henry A. Wise or James Buchanan '' .
The Newport Mercury exhibited more concern over the possibility of the abolitionists making a martyr of Brown than it did over the development of sympathy for him .
In her letter to John Brown , `` E. B. '' , the Quakeress from Newport , had suggested that the American people owed more honor to John Brown for seeking to free the slaves than they did to George Washington .
During the latter days of November to the day of Brown's execution , it seems that most Rhode Islanders did not concur in `` E. B.'s '' suggestion .
On November 22 , 1859 , the Providence Daily Journal stated that although Brown's `` pluck '' and honest fanaticism must be admired , any honor paid to Brown would only induce other fanatics to imitate his actions .
A week later the Daily Journal had discovered the initial plans of some Providence citizens to hold a meeting honoring John Brown on the day of his execution .
The editor of the Daily Journal warned , `` that if such a demonstration be made , it will not find support or countenance from any of the men whose names are recognized as having a right to speak for Providence '' .
The Providence Daily Post's editor wrote that he could not believe that a meeting honoring Brown was to be held in Providence .
He further called upon the people of Providence to rebuke the meeting and avoid disgrace .
On December 2 , 1859 , John Brown was hanged at Charles Town , Virginia .
Extraordinary precautions were taken so that no stranger be allowed in the city and no citizen within the enclosure surrounding the scaffold .
In many Northern towns and cities meetings were held and church bells were tolled .
Such was not the case in Rhode Island .
The only public demonstration in honor of John Brown was held at Pratt's Hall in Providence , on the day of his execution .
Despite the opposition of the city newspapers , the Pratt Hall meeting `` brought together a very respectable audience , composed in part of those who had been distinguished for years for their radical views upon the subject of slavery , of many of our colored citizens , and of those who were attracted to the place by the novelty of such a gathering '' .
Seated on the platform were Amos C. Barstow , ex-mayor of Providence and a wealthy Republican stove manufacturer ; ;
Thomas Davis , an uncompromising Garrisonian ; ;
the Reverend Augustus Woodbury , a Unitarian minister ; ;
the Reverend George T. Day , a Free-Will Baptist ; ;
Daniel W. Vaughan , and William H. H. Clements .
The latter two were appointed secretaries .
The first speaker was Amos C. Barstow who had been unanimously chosen president of the meeting .
He spoke of his desire to promote the abolition of slavery by peaceable means and he compared John Brown of Harper's Ferry to the John Brown of Rhode Island's colonial period .
Barstow concluded that as Rhode Island's John Brown became a canonized hero , if not a saint , so would it be with John Brown of Harper's Ferry .
The next speaker was George T. Day .
Although admitting Brown's guilt on legal grounds , Day said that , `` Brown is no common criminal ; ;
his deed was not below , but above the law '' .
Following Day was Woodbury who spoke of his disapproval of Brown's attempt at servile insurrection , his admiration of Brown's character , and his opposition to slavery .
Woodbury's remarks were applauded by a portion of the audience several times and once there was hissing .
The fourth and last speaker was Thomas Davis .
By this time large numbers of the audience had left the hall .
Davis commenced his remarks by an allusion to the general feeling of opposition which the meeting had encountered from many of the citizens and all the newspapers of the city .
He said that the propriety or impropriety of such a gathering was a question that was to be settled by every man in accordance with the convictions of private judgments .
In the remainder of his speech Davis spoke of his admiration for Brown and warned those who took part in the meeting that they `` are liable to the charge that they are supporting traitors and upholding men whom the laws have condemned '' .
He recalled that in Rhode Island a party opposed to the state's condemnation of a man ( Thomas W. Dorr ) proclaimed the state's action as a violation of the law of the land and the principles of human liberty .
At the close of Davis' speech the following preamble and resolutions were read by the president , and on the question of their adoption passed unanimously :
Whereas , John Brown has cheerfully risked his life in endeavoring to deliver those who are denied all rights and is this day doomed to suffer death for his efforts in behalf of those who have no helper : Therefore ,
Resolved that , while we most decidedly disapprove the methods he adopted to accomplish his objects , yet in his willingness to die in aid of the great cause of human freedom , we still recognize the qualities of a noble nature and the exercise of a spirit which true men have always admired and which history never fails to honor .
Resolved that his wrongs and bereavements in Kansas , occasioned by the violence and brutality of those who were intent on the propagation of slavery in that territory , call for a charitable judgment upon his recent efforts in Virginia to undermine the despotism from which he had suffered , and commend his family to the special sympathy and aid of all who pity suffering and reverence justice .
Resolved that the anti-slavery sentiment is becoming ripe for resolute action .
Resolved , that we find in this fearful tragedy at Harper's Ferry a reason for more earnest effort to remove the evil of slavery from the whole land as speedily as possible .
On the morning following the Pratt Hall meeting the editor of the Providence Daily Journal wrote that although the meeting was milder and less extreme than those held in other areas for similar purposes , it could have been avoided completely .
Rather than being deceived , the eye is puzzled ; ;
instead of seeing objects in space , it sees nothing more than -- a picture .
Through 1911 and 1912 , as the Cubist facet-plane's tendency to adhere to the literal surface became harder and harder to deny , the task of keeping the surface at arm's length fell all the more to eye-undeceiving contrivances .
To reinforce , and sometimes to replace , the simulated typography , Braque and Picasso began to mix sand and other foreign substances with their paint ; ;
the granular texture thus created likewise called attention to the reality of the surface and was effective over much larger areas .
In certain other pictures , however , Braque began to paint areas in exact simulation of wood graining or marbleizing .
These areas , by virtue of their abrupt density of pattern , stated the literal surface with such new and superior force that the resulting contrast drove the simulated printing into a depth from which it could be rescued -- and set to shuttling again -- only by conventional perspective ; ;
that is , by being placed in such relation to the forms depicted within the illusion that these forms left no room for the typography except near the surface .
The accumulation of such devices , however , soon had the effect of telescoping , even while separating , surface and depth .
The process of flattening seemed inexorable , and it became necessary to emphasize the surface still further in order to prevent it from fusing with the illusion .
It was for this reason , and no other that I can see , that in September 1912 , Braque took the radical and revolutionary step of pasting actual pieces of imitation-woodgrain wallpaper to a drawing on paper , instead of trying to simulate its texture in paint .
Picasso says that he himself had already made his first collage toward the end of 1911 , when he glued a piece of imitation-caning oilcloth to a painting on canvas .
It is true that his first collage looks more Analytical than Braque's , which would confirm the date he assigns it .
But it is also true that Braque was the consistent pioneer in the use of simulated textures as well as of typography ; ;
and moreover , he had already begun to broaden and simplify the facet-planes of Analytical Cubism as far back as the end of 1910 .
When we examine what each master says was his first collage we see that much the same thing happens in each .
( It makes no real difference that Braque's collage is on paper and eked out in charcoal , while Picasso's is on canvas and eked out in oil .
) By its greater corporeal presence and its greater extraneousness , the affixed paper or cloth serves for a seeming moment to push everything else into a more vivid idea of depth than the simulated printing or simulated textures had ever done .
But here again , the surface-declaring device both overshoots and falls short of its aim .
For the illusion of depth created by the contrast between the affixed material and everything else gives way immediately to an illusion of forms in bas-relief , which gives way in turn , and with equal immediacy , to an illusion that seems to contain both -- or neither .
Because of the size of the areas it covers , the pasted paper establishes undepicted flatness bodily , as more than an indication or sign .
Literal flatness now tends to assert itself as the main event of the picture , and the device boomerangs : the illusion of depth is rendered even more precarious than before .
Instead of isolating the literal flatness by specifying and circumscribing it , the pasted paper or cloth releases and spreads it , and the artist seems to have nothing left but this undepicted flatness with which to finish as well as start his picture .
The actual surface becomes both ground and background , and it turns out -- suddenly and paradoxically -- that the only place left for a three-dimensional illusion is in front of , upon , the surface .
In their very first collages , Braque and Picasso draw or paint over and on the affixed paper or cloth , so that certain of the principal features of their subjects as depicted seem to thrust out into real , bas-relief space -- or to be about to do so -- while the rest of the subject remains imbedded in , or flat upon , the surface .
And the surface is driven back , in its very surfaceness , only by this contrast .
In the upper center of Braque's first collage , Fruit Dish ( in Douglas Cooper's collection ) , a bunch of grapes is rendered with such conventionally vivid sculptural effect as to lift it practically off the picture plane .
The trompe-l'oeil illusion here is no longer enclosed between parallel flatnesses , but seems to thrust through the surface of the drawing paper and establish depth on top of it .
Yet the violent immediacy of the wallpaper strips pasted to the paper , and the only lesser immediacy of block capitals that simulate window lettering , manage somehow to push the grape cluster back into place on the picture plane so that it does not `` jump '' .
At the same time , the wallpaper strips themselves seem to be pushed into depth by the lines and patches of shading charcoaled upon them , and by their placing in relation to the block capitals ; ;
and these capitals seem in turn to be pushed back by their placing , and by contrast with the corporeality of the woodgraining .
Thus every part and plane of the picture keeps changing place in relative depth with every other part and plane ; ;
and it is as if the only stable relation left among the different parts of the picture is the ambivalent and ambiguous one that each has with the surface .
And the same thing , more or less , can be said of the contents of Picasso's first collage .
In later collages of both masters , a variety of extraneous materials are used , sometimes in the same work , and almost always in conjunction with every other eye-deceiving and eye-undeceiving device they can think of .
The area adjacent to one edge of a piece of affixed material -- or simply of a painted-in form -- will be shaded to pry that edge away from the surface , while something will be drawn , painted or even pasted over another part of the same shape to drive it back into depth .
Planes defined as parallel to the surface also cut through it into real space , and a depth is suggested optically which is greater than that established pictorially .
All this expands the oscillation between surface and depth so as to encompass fictive space in front of the surface as well as behind it .
Flatness may now monopolize everything , but it is a flatness become so ambiguous and expanded as to turn into illusion itself -- at least an optical if not , properly speaking , a pictorial illusion .
Depicted , Cubist flatness is now almost completely assimilated to the literal , undepicted kind , but at the same time it reacts upon and largely transforms the undepicted kind -- and it does so , moreover , without depriving the latter of its literalness ; ;
rather , it underpins and reinforces that literalness , re-creates it .
Out of this re-created literalness , the Cubist subject reemerged .
For it had turned out , by a further paradox of Cubism , that the means to an illusion of depth and plasticity had now become widely divergent from the means of representation or imaging .
In the Analytical phase of their Cubism , Braque and Picasso had not only had to minimize three-dimensionality simply in order to preserve it ; ;
they had also had to generalize it -- to the point , finally , where the illusion of depth and relief became abstracted from specific three-dimensional entities and was rendered largely as the illusion of depth and relief as such : as a disembodied attribute and expropriated property detached from everything not itself .
In order to be saved , plasticity had had to be isolated ; ;
and as the aspect of the subject was transposed into those clusters of more or less interchangeable and contour-obliterating facet-planes by which plasticity was isolated under the Cubist method , the subject itself became largely unrecognizable .
Cubism , in its 1911-1912 phase ( which the French , with justice , call `` hermetic '' ) was on the verge of abstract art .
It was then that Picasso and Braque were confronted with a unique dilemma : they had to choose between illusion and representation .
If they opted for illusion , it could only be illusion per se -- an illusion of depth , and of relief , so general and abstracted as to exclude the representation of individual objects .
If , on the other hand , they opted for representation , it had to be representation per se -- representation as image pure and simple , without connotations ( at least , without more than schematic ones ) of the three-dimensional space in which the objects represented originally existed .
It was the collage that made the terms of this dilemma clear : the representational could be restored and preserved only on the flat and literal surface now that illusion and representation had become , for the first time , mutually exclusive alternatives .
In the end , Picasso and Braque plumped for the representational , and it would seem they did so deliberately .
( This provides whatever real justification there is for the talk about `` reality '' .
) But the inner , formal logic of Cubism , as it worked itself out through the collage , had just as much to do with shaping their decision .
When the smaller facet-planes of Analytical Cubism were placed upon or juxtaposed with the large , dense shapes formed by the affixed materials of the collage , they had to coalesce -- become `` synthesized '' -- into larger planar shapes themselves simply in order to maintain the integrity of the picture plane .
Left in their previous atom-like smallness , they would have cut away too abruptly into depth ; ;
and the broad , opaque shapes of pasted paper would have been isolated in such a way as to make them jump out of plane .
Large planes juxtaposed with other large planes tend to assert themselves as independent shapes , and to the extent that they are flat , they also assert themselves as silhouettes ; ;
and independent silhouettes are apt to coincide with the recognizable contours of the subject from which a picture starts ( if it does start from a subject ) .
It was because of this chain-reaction as much as for any other reason -- that is , because of the growing independence of the planar unit in collage as a shape -- that the identity of depicted objects , or at least parts of them , re-emerged in Braque's and Picasso's papiers colles and continued to remain more conspicuous there -- but only as flattened silhouettes -- than in any of their paintings done wholly in oil before the end of 1913 .
Analytical Cubism came to an end in the collage , but not conclusively ; ;
nor did Synthetic Cubism fully begin there .
Only when the collage had been exhaustively translated into oil , and transformed by this translation , did Cubism become an affair of positive color and flat , interlocking silhouettes whose legibility and placement created allusions to , if not the illusion of , unmistakable three-dimensional identities .
Synthetic Cubism began with Picasso alone , late in 1913 or early in 1914 ; ;
this was the point at which he finally took the lead in Cubist innovation away from Braque , never again to relinquish it .
But even before that , Picasso had glimpsed and entered , for a moment , a certain revolutionary path in which no one had preceded him .
It was as though , in that instant , he had felt the flatness of collage as too constricting and had suddenly tried to escape all the way back -- or forward -- to literal three-dimensionality .
This he did by using utterly literal means to carry the forward push of the collage ( and of Cubism in general ) literally into the literal space in front of the picture plane .
Some time in 1912 , Picasso cut out and folded a piece of paper in the shape of a guitar ; ;
to this he glued and fitted other pieces of paper and four taut strings , thus creating a sequence of flat surfaces in real and sculptural space to which there clung only the vestige of a picture plane .
The affixed elements of collage were extruded , as it were , and cut off from the literal pictorial surface to form a bas-relief .
Los Angeles in 1957 finally bowed to the skyscraper .
) And without high density in the core , rapid-transit systems cannot be maintained economically , let alone built from scratch at today's prices .
However , the building of freeways and garages cannot continue forever .
The new interchange among the four Los Angeles freeways , including the grade-constructed accesses , occupies by itself no less than eighty acres of downtown land , one-eighth of a square mile , an area about the size of Rockefeller Center in New York .
It is hard to believe that this mass of intertwined concrete constitutes what the law calls `` the highest and best use '' of centrally located urban land .
As it affects the city's fiscal situation , such an interchange is ruinous ; ;
it removes forever from the tax rolls property which should be taxed to pay for the city services .
Subways improved land values without taking away land ; ;
freeways boost valuation less ( because the garages they require are not prime buildings by a long shot ) , and reduce the acreage that can be taxed .
Downtown Los Angeles is already two-thirds freeway , interchange , street , parking lot and garage -- one of those preposterous `` if '' statistics has already come to pass .
The freeway with narrowly spaced interchanges concentrates and mitigates the access problem , but it also acts inevitably as an artificial , isolating boundary .
City planners do not always use this boundary as effectively as they might .
Less ambitious freeway plans may be more successful -- especially when the roadways and interchanges are raised , allowing for cross access at many points and providing parking areas below the ramp .
Meanwhile , the automobile and its friend the truck have cost the central city some of its industrial dominance .
In ever greater numbers , factories are locating in the suburbs or in `` industrial parks '' removed from the city's political jurisdiction .
The appeal of the suburb is particularly strong for heavy industry , which must move bulky objects along a lengthy assembly line and wants enough land area to do the entire job on one floor .
To light industry , the economies of being on one floor are much slighter , but efficiency engineers usually believe in them , and manufacturers looking for ways to cut costs cannot be prevented from turning to efficiency engineers .
This movement of industry away from the central cities is not so catastrophically new as some prophets seem to believe .
It is merely the latest example of the leapfrog growth which formed the pattern of virtually all American cities .
The big factories which are relatively near the centers of our cities -- the rubber factories in Akron , Chrysler's Detroit plants , U.S. Steel's Pittsburgh works -- often began on these sites at a time when that was the edge of the city , yet close to transport ( river ) , storage ( piers ) and power ( river ) .
The `` leapfrog '' was a phenomenon of the railroad and the steam turbine , and the time when the belts of residence surrounding the old factory area were not yet blighted .
The truck and the car gave the manufacturer a new degree of freedom in selecting his plant site .
Until internal combustion became cheap , he had to be near a railroad siding and a trolley line or an existing large community of lower-class homes .
The railroad siding is still important -- it is usually , though not always , true that long-haul shipment by rail is cheaper than trucking .
But anybody who promises a substantial volume of business can get a railroad to run a short spur to his plant these days , and many businesses can live without the railroad .
And there are now many millions of workers for whom the factory with the big parking lot , which can be reached by driving across or against the usual pattern of rush hour traffic and grille-route bus lines , is actually more convenient than the walk-to factory .
Willow Run , General Electric's enormous installations at Louisville and Syracuse , the Pentagon , Boeing in Seattle , Douglas and Lockheed in Los Angeles , the new automobile assembly plants everywhere -- none of these is substantially served by any sort of conventional mass rapid transit .
They are all suburban plants , relying on the roads to keep them supplied with workers .
And wherever the new thruways go up their banks are lined by neat glass and metal and colored brick light industry .
The drive along Massachusetts' Route 128 , the by-pass which makes an arc about twenty miles from downtown Boston , may be a vision of the future .
The future could be worse .
The plants along Route 128 are mostly well designed and nicely set against the New England rocks and trees .
They can even be rather grand , like Edward Land's monument to the astonishing success of Polaroid .
But they deny the values of the city -- the crowded , competitive , tolerant city , the `` melting pot '' which gave off so many of the most admirable American qualities .
They are segregated businesses , combining again on one site the factory and the office , drawing their work force from segregated communities .
It is interesting to note how many of the plants on Massachusetts' Route 128 draw most of their income either from the government in non-competitive cost-plus arrangements , or from the exploitation of patents which grant at least a partial monopoly .
While the factories were always the center of the labor market , they were often on the city's periphery .
In spreading the factories even farther , the automobile may not have changed to any great extent the growth pattern of the cities .
Even the loss of hotel business to the outskirt's motel has been relatively painless ; ;
the hotel-motel demarcation is becoming harder to find every year .
What hurts most is the damage the automobile has done to central-city retailing , especially in those cities where public transit is feeble .
Some retailing , of course , always spreads with the population -- grocery stores , drugstores , local haberdasheries and dress shops , candy stores and the like .
But whenever a major purchase was contemplated forty years ago -- a new bedroom set or a winter coat , an Easter bonnet , a bicycle for Junior -- the family set off for the downtown department store , where the selection would be greatest .
Department stores congregated in the `` one hundred per cent location '' , where all the transit lines converged .
These stores are still there , but the volume of the `` downtown store '' has been on a relative decline , while in many cities the suburban `` branch '' sells more and more dry goods .
If the retailer and hotelman's downtown unit sales have been decreasing , however , his dollar volume continues to rise , and it is dollars which you put in the bank .
In most discussions of this phenomenon , the figures are substantially inflated .
No suburban shopping-center branch -- not even Hudson's vast Northland outside Detroit -- does anything like the unit volume of business or carries anything like the variety of merchandise to be found in the home store .
Telephone orders distort the picture : the suburbanite naturally calls a local rather than a central-city number if both are listed in an advertisement , especially if the local call eliminates city sales tax .
The suburban branch is thereby credited with a sale which would have been made even if its glass doors had never opened .
Accounting procedures which continue to charge a disproportionate overhead and warehouse expense to the main store make the branches seem more profitable than they are .
In many cases that statement -- `` We break even on our downtown operation and make money on our branches '' -- would be turned around if the cost analysis were recalculated on terms less prejudicial to the old store .
Fear of the competition -- always a great motivating force in the American economy -- makes retailers who do not have suburban operations exaggerate both the volume and the profitability of their rival's shiny new branches .
The fact seems to be that very many large branch stores are uneconomical , that the choice of location in the suburbs is as important as it was downtown , and that even highly suburbanized cities will support only so many big branches .
Moreover , the cost of operations is always high in any new store , as the conservative bankers who act as controllers for retail giants are beginning to discover .
When all has been said , however , the big branch store remains a major break with history in the development of American retailing .
Just as the suburban factory may be more convenient than the downtown plant to the worker with a car , the trip to the shopping center may seem far easier than to the downtown department store , though both are the same distance from home .
Indeed , there are some cities where the suburban shopping pulls customers who are geographically much nearer to downtown .
Raymond Vernon reports that residents of East St. Louis have been driving across the Mississippi , through the heart of downtown St. Louis and out to the western suburbs for major shopping , simply because parking is easier at the big branches than it is in the heart of town .
To the extent that the problem is merely parking , an aggressive downtown management , like that of Lazarus Brothers in Columbus , Ohio , can fight back successfully by building a garage on the lot next door .
If the distant patron of the suburban branch has been frightened away from downtown by traffic problems , however , the city store can only pressure the politicians to do something about the highways or await the completion of the federal highway program .
And if the affection for the suburban branch reflects a desire to shop with `` nice people '' , rather than with the indiscriminate urban mass which supports the downtown department store , the central location may be in serious trouble .
Today , according to land economist Homer Hoyt , shopping centers and their associated parking lots cover some 46,000 acres of land , which is almost exactly the total land area in all the nation's Central Business Districts put together .
The downtown store continues to offer the great inducement of variety , both within its gates and across the street , where other department stores are immediately convenient for the shopper who wants to see what is available before making up her mind .
If anything may be predicted in the quicksilver world of retailing , it seems likely that the suburban branch will come to dominate children's clothing ( taking the kid downtown is too much of a production ) , household gadgetry and the discount business in big-ticket items .
Department stores were built on dry goods , especially ladies' fashions , and in this area , in the long run , the suburban branches will be hard put to compete against downtown .
If this analysis is correct , the suburban branches will turn out to be what management's cost accountants refuse to acknowledge , marginal operations rather than major factors .
Historically in America the appeal of cities has been their color and life , the variety of experience they offered .
`` How ya gonna keep 'em down on the farm '' ? ?
Was a question that had to be asked long before they saw Paree .
Though Americans usually lived in groups segregated by national origin or religious belief , they liked to work and shop in the noise and vitality of downtown .
Only a radical change in the nature of the population in the central city would be likely to destroy this preference -- and we must now turn our attention to the question of whether such a change , gloomily foreseen by so many urban diagnosticians , is actually upon us .
4 .
Suburbs and Negroes
In their book , American Skyline , Christopher Tunnard and Henry Hope Reed argue that Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal was what made the modern suburb a possibility -- a fine ironical argument , when you consider how suburbanites tend to vote .
The first superhighways -- New York's Henry Hudson and Chicago's Lake Shore , San Francisco's Bay Bridge and its approaches , a good slice of the Pennsylvania Turnpike -- were built as part of the federal works program which was going to cure the depression .
At the same time , Roosevelt's Federal Housing Administration , coupled with Henry Morgenthau's cheap-money policy , permitted ordinary lower-middle-class families to build their own homes .
Bankers who had been reluctant to lend without better security than the house itself got that security from the U. S. government ; ;
householders who had been unable to pick up the burden of short-term high-interest mortgages found they could borrow for twenty-five years at 4 per cent , under government aegis .
Before losing itself in the sands of the 19th Century , the grand stream of Italian Renaissance architectural decoration made a last appearance in the Brumidi frescos of the Capitol Rotunda in Washington .
The artistic generation after Brumidi was trained in the Paris of that time to a more meticulous standard of execution , and tended to overlook greatness of conception where faults and weakness were easy to find .
But it is a great conception .
The open ceiling , with allegorical and classical figures thrown in masses against the sky : the closed frieze , formally divided into historical scenes and tightly tied to the stone walls , belong in their large ordering to the line of Correggio and his Baroque followers .
The descent may be remote , but this is surely the only full-scale example of that vigorous inheritance in the United States .
Constantino Brumidi designed the decorative scheme as a whole , in collaboration with the architect Charles U. Walter , at the time when plans were being made to replace the wooden dome of Bullfinch with the present much larger iron structure .
After many years and many interruptions he was able to finish the canopy fresco , and slightly less than half the frieze , beginning with the Liberty group opposite the East door , and ending with William Penn , all but one leg , when a tragic accident ended his career .
He left at his death sketches , drawn to scale , for the rest of the circle .
These were carried out not too faithfully by Filippo Costaggini , who began by supplying the missing member to the founder of Pennsylvania and noting in pencil , in Italian , that he `` began at this point '' .
When Costaggini had used up all the sketches thirty-six feet of empty frieze were left over .
A blank undecorated void , plastered in roughcast , disfigured the wall of the Rotunda until 1951 .
Then , advised by the Architect of the Capitol , the Joint Committee for the Library , traditionally responsible for the works of art in the building , ordered the space cleared and painted in fresco , to show `` the Peace after the Civil War '' , `` the Spanish-American War '' , and `` the Birth of Aviation '' , to match as nearly as feasible Brumidi's technique and composition .
Later the cleaning and restoration were ordered , first of the older part of the frieze , finally of the canopy .
What follows is therefore a description of three separate undertakings , the new frescoing of the gap , and the successive essays in conservation , with some discussion of problems that arose in connection with each .
For the use of students and future restorers , a full , day-by-day record was kept of all three undertakings , complete technical reports on what we found and what we did .
These may be consulted in the office of the Architect of the Capitol , or the Library of Congress .
The first preliminary was inspecting the unfinished length of frieze , a jumble of roughcast and finish coats , all in bad condition .
It was decided to strip the whole area down to the bricks , and to replace the rough coats up to one inch thickness to agree with the older artists' preparation , with a mortar , one part slaked lime , three parts sand , to be put on in two layers .
Cartoons were drawn full size , after sketches had been made to satisfy all the authorities .
There was some difficulty here .
One had to manage the given subjects , three diverse recent events , so as to make them part of a classical frieze , -- that is , a pattern of large figures filling the space , with not much else , against a blank background .
Moreover , all three representations must be squeezed comfortably into little more than the length Brumidi allowed for each one of his .
When it was all arranged to fit , and not to interrupt the lengthwise flow of movement in the frieze , the cartoons were tried in place .
The scaffolding , a confusion of heavy beams hanging from the gallery above , was strong and safe , but obscured visibility .
Nothing could be seen from the floor , but by moving around the gallery one could get glimpses ; ;
and we were able to decide on some amplification of scale .
To be sure of matching color as well as form , pieces of cartoon were traced on the roughcast , and large samples painted in fresco , then left two months to dry out to their final key .
Later it was gratifying to note that they had set so solidly as to be hard to remove when the time came .
The scaffold was the length of the space to be painted .
What bits of Brumidi and Costaggini could be reached at either end seemed in good order , though the roughish sandy surface was thick with dust .
Washed , they came out surprisingly clear and bright .
It could be seen that both artists used a very thick final coat of plaster , one half inch , and that both followed the traditional Italian fresco technique as described by Cennino Cennini in the 14th Century , and current in Italy to this day .
That is , they used opaque color throughout , getting solid highlights with active lime white .
Painting `` a secco '' is much in evidence .
A brown hatching reinforces and broadens shadows , and much of the background is solidly covered with a dark coat .
This brown is sometimes so rich in medium as to appear to be oil paint .
In our own practice , to have the last `` intonaco '' plaster coat thick enough to match , and at the same time to avoid fine cracks in drying , we found that it had to be put on in two layers , letting the first set awhile before applying the second .
The mortar was three parts sand to two of lime .
Some of the lime that is always on hand in the Capitol basement for plaster repairs was slaked several months for us ; ;
but to make it stiffer , of a really putty-like consistency to avoid cracking , we added a little hydrated lime -- hard on the hands , but we could see no other disadvantage .
I am told that a mortar longer slaked might have remained longer in condition for painting .
As it was , it took the pigment well for six hours , enough for our purpose , and held it firmly in setting .
It was obvious that to match Brumidi , white must be mixed with all but the darkest tones .
Lime white , hard and brilliant , has a tendency to `` jump '' away from the other colors in drying , and also by its capacity to set , to preclude the use of ready-made gradations , so useful in decorative work .
In older Italian practice , lime , dried and reground `` bianco sangiovanni '' , entered into such prepared shades .
For convenience we chose a stronger pigment , unknown to the early Italians or to Brumidi , titanium oxide , reserving the active lime white for highest lights , put on at the end of the day's stint .
Other pigments were mostly raw umber , some burnt umber , and a little yellow ochre .
This last was probably not in Brumidi's palette , but was needed to take the chill , bluish look off the new work next to the old , where softening effects of time were seen , even after thorough cleaning .
The use of `` secco '' we tried to restrict to covering joints .
Experience showed , however , that it is very difficult to paint a dark umber background in fresco that will not dry out spotty and uneven .
Later Brumidi and Costaggini will be seen coping with this same problem .
We were forced , as they were , to work a good deal of tempera into background and dark areas .
We made it by Doerner's recipe , five parts thoroughly washed cheese curd to one of lime putty ; ;
ground together they made a strong adhesive , which became waterproof in drying .
Figure 1 was taken in 1953 .
The new part is finished .
On the right is the Brumidi Liberty group , as it looked after cleaning operations , which had not yet come around to the other end ; ;
where , of Costaggini , only some foliage has been washed , at the point where his work stopped .
One is led to speculate as to why the empty space was there , left for our century to finish .
Costaggini said it was Brumidi's fault in not providing enough material to fill the circle .
Brumidi's son later maintained that Costaggini had compressed and mutilated his father's designs , ambitiously coveting a bit he could claim for his very own .
This question might be settled by comparing the measurement of the actual circumference with the dimensions noted , presumably in Brumidi's hand , above the various sections of his long preparatory drawing , which has been kept .
Whosever fault , it is evident that Brumidi intended to fill out the whole frieze with his `` histories '' and come full circle with the scene of the discovery of California gold .
In painting a fresco , the handling of wet mortar compels one always to move from top to bottom and from left to right , not to spoil yesterday's work with today's plastering .
At the very first , then , Brumidi was required , by the classically pyramidal shape of his central group , to fill in the triangular space above the seated girl on Liberty's right , before starting on the allegorical figures themselves .
Here he put a small man , whose missing hands might have left his function doubtful , until comparison with the first sketches showed that when the artist came back to the beginning , this was to be the closing figure of the party of `` forty-niners '' , and was to hold a basket .
One sees Costaggini's rendering of the same figure more than thirty feet away .
The photograph , Figure 1 of the completed frieze , shows how , having been separated from his fellows in useless isolation for eighty years , he has now been given a hand , and by juxtaposition ( and the permission of the Committee ) , given a new job , to represent the witnesses of the first flight at Kitty Hawk in 1903 .
The startlingly bright effect of the first washings led the Committee to order the rest of the Brumidi-Costaggini cycle cleaned and restored to go with them .
The fixed wooden scaffold was removed , and , so as to reach all the frieze , one of pipe , on wheels , built up from the floor .
Every few days , in the early morning , as the work progressed , twenty men would appear to push it ahead and to shift the plank foundation that distributed its weight widely on the Rotunda pavement , supported as it is by ancient brick vaulting .
On this giddy and oscillating platform over fifty feet from the floor , after a first dusting , we began to wash .
A most useful tool for wetting the surface without running down was made from a greenhouse `` mist spray '' nozzle welded to a hose connection , to be used at low water pressure .
A valve in the handle let us cut the pressure still lower .
One man sprayed , with a sponge in hand to check excess wetting .
A second assistant mopped with two sponges .
In parts a repeated sponging was needed , but everywhere we found that water alone was enough to restore the original brightness .
No soap or other cleaning agent was used that might bring in unwanted chemical reactions .
The painting `` a fresco '' stood up superbly ; ;
a little of the `` secco '' came off .
Necessary retouching was put on at once .
Altogether we found the craftsmanship first rate , especially Brumidi's .
We were greatly helped by there being no traces of former restoring .
Apparently not more than dusting had ever been done , and not much of that .
The plaster was sound , the intonaco firmly attached all over , and the pigment solidly incorporated with it in all but a few unimportant places .
The greatest source of trouble was rain which had repeatedly flowed from openings above , soaking the surface and leaving streaks of dissolved lime , very conspicuous even after cleaning , particularly in the `` Landing of Columbus '' , `` Oglethorpe and the Indians '' , and `` Yorktown '' .
Here the Architect , referring to the use of the Capitol as a public building , not a museum , requested some repainting to maintain decorative effect , rather than leaving blank , unsightly patches .
These frescos have had no care for eighty years .
With naked gas jets below and leaky windows above , enough to ruin wall paintings in any medium , they have survived , in a building long unheated in winter , hot and damp under the iron dome in summer .
Those whom I wish to address with this letter are for the most part unknown to me .
It may well be that , when Rudy Pozzatti and I visited your country last spring , you were living and working close to the places we saw and the streets we walked .
As American artists , it was natural that we would want to meet as many Soviet artists as possible .
This letter might not have been necessary had our efforts to meet and talk with you been more successful .
Even though we did not see many of your faces , it appears now quite evident that a considerable number of your profession heard , from those whom we had the fortune to encounter , that we had been in your midst .
I am very pleased that quite a number of you found ways to communicate to me your desire to hear of our reactions and experiences in the U.S.S.R. .
I can well understand your curiosity .
We , ourselves , are always eager to know how others feel about us and the way in which we live .
It is my hope that this written message and report will reach you through the good offices of the Union of Soviet Artists .
There should be no reason to misinterpret or ignore the intent of this letter .
Pozzatti and I endeavored earnestly to record our impressions without the prejudice that the anxiety of our time so easily provokes .
The time-span of little more than a month cannot entitle me to pose as an expert on anything I saw .
Too much damage is done by `` experts '' who have spent even less time , if any at all , in the U.S.S.R. .
Nevertheless I consider it reasonable , because of my commitment as an artist , to assume that the rights and responsibilities of creative individuals are related to humanity as a whole rather than to specific geo-political interests .
If this attitude is seriously questioned in the Soviet Union , it does not necessarily follow that the majority of the society in which I live is too aware of the necessity for clarity on this ethical as well as aesthetic point of view .
It is a matter of some disappointment to me that still many of my own countrymen are too shortsighted to ascribe any symbolic significance to the plight of a minority , such as artists , in any social order .
I encountered many questions and great interest upon my return from the Soviet Union about my reactions to that experience .
That which I found most profound and most disturbing appeared to evoke a curiously muted reaction .
Almost as if I were talking about something quite unreal .
Apparently this is not the time and the climate in which people will listen objectively , or at least dispassionately , to individual impressions of a subject which preoccupies a good deal of their waking moments .
Personal predispositions tend to blunt the ear and , in turn , the voice as well .
I cannot be content with the anecdotal small talk of a somewhat unusual travelogue .
I am equally impatient with the shrug of the shoulder , shake of the head of those who no longer care because they have known it for so long ; ;
the aggressive disbelief of those who are romantically lost in a semantic jungle of the word `` Revolution '' ; ;
the belligerent denunciations by the sick fanatics of ignorance who try to build a papier-mache wall of pseudo-patriotism on our physical horizons .
Difficult as it may have been at times , Pozzatti and I saw enough , talked to enough artists , historians and others to realize that the issue is quite clear .
Artists and poets are the raw nerve-ends of humanity ; ;
they are small in number and their contribution is not immediately decisive in everyday life .
By themselves they may not be able to save the life on this planet , but without them there would be very little left worth saving .
It cannot be said that our very first day in the Soviet Union turned out to be an ordinary one .
On that cold , but bright , April day we were guests of your government in the reviewing stand of Red Square to witness the poeple's celebration for Yuri Gagarin and later on that day we attended the somewhat more exclusive reception for him in one of the impressive palaces of the Kremlin .
If we thus spent our very first day in the midst of a large number of your people honoring a new hero and a great national achievement , our last day , to us at least , was equally impressive and very moving , even though the crowds were absent and there was almost complete silence .
We stood under a gigantic tree in the rolling country just outside of Moscow looking at silent flowers on the grave of a Russian poet and writer who cherished the love for his country to the point of foregoing the highest international honor .
The grave , about half-way between his home and the blue turrets of a small church , rose above the forms and spaces of gently undisciplined pastures of green , the sounds of birds , the silence of other graves and the casual paths through small forests .
Just yesterday we had met and talked with a living writer , a contemporary of the dead poet , who is known for his ability of manipulating his ideas and his craft more advantageously .
But today we were aware of only two men .
One had taken a flight into uncharted space , in the service of science , to return as a living hero .
The other had assumed the right to explore the equally uncharted space of the human spirit .
The flowers on his grave attested to the fact that he as well was somebody's hero .
These two recollections form the frame around a series of experiences and sights which , to me at least , symbolize the extremes in the aesthetic as well as ethical conflict between materialism and humanism .
A struggle that is being waged all over the world in the half-light of disinterest .
The prevalent opinion which we encountered in a variety of expressions in your country denied not only the existence of this conflict but it was elaborated even further with an incredible semantic dexterity .
The socialist environment , it was stated , had cross-fertilized these two extreme seeds and was about to produce a new plant and fruit .
When I speculated on one such occasion that the new growth , like other mutations , might be unable to propagate , I was immediately accused of preaching racial prejudice .
I could not bring myself to answer that `` some of my best friends are non-propagating mules '' .
This kind of reasoning and logic takes a little time to get used to .
After a while we were perhaps less surprised , but still puzzled , when a friendly discussion would suddenly jump the track into the most irrelevant and illogical comparisons .
A chance remark about Lenin's sealed train brought the rejoinder that this was a myth akin to George Washington's cherry tree .
Theories of the behavior pattern of population masses were compared to scientific discoveries concerning the motion-pattern of gaseous masses .
No wonder that Pozzatti and I had at times difficulty in remembering the real purpose of our presence , namely , Cultural Exchange .
Typical of such an experience was the occasion of a somewhat formal official welcome in the offices of the Union of Soviet Artists .
We had looked forward to what we hoped to be our first informal meeting with a number of Moscow's artists .
Instead , we became involved in a series of friendly , but overly formal , welcoming addresses to which we had no choice but to reply in kind .
The terms of friendship , understanding , cooperation , etc. , tend to become somewhat shopworn because of constant and indiscriminate use .
I can only hope that the continuing exchange of groups and individuals between our countries will not wear out all language pertinent to the occasion .
The presiding female functionary , of massive proportions and forbidding appearance , initially did not contribute to the expressions of friendship and welcome by a number of dignified gentlemen representing the arts .
It was only after we had responded , with what I fear were similar cliches , that she went into action by questioning our desire for friendship and understanding with a challenge about aggressive and warlike actions by the U.S. Government in Cuba and Laos .
She retreated by leaving the room when we suggested that our meeting might well terminate right then and there .
Unfortunately she returned later , just as I had taken advantage of the friendlier atmosphere in the room by stating that perhaps an unexpected result of the Cultural Exchange Program would be the re-emergence of Abstract Art in Russia , with Social Realism regaining dominance in the U.S. .
This gave her an opportunity to ring down the curtain with the petulant admonition that we should not presume to lecture her on Abstraction .
She did not go so far as to say , as was done on other occasions , that Abstraction as well as Impressionism were a Russian invention that had been discarded as unwanted by the people of the U.S.S.R.
.
Pozzatti and I could not know then that we would experience this sort of treatment more often in Moscow than elsewhere .
We were to discover , in fact , that quite a number of people share with us the impression that , in contrast to other Soviet regions , Moscow's atmosphere is depressingly subdued and official .
To have one's intentions deliberately or unintentionally misunderstood is always a waste of time .
Until our Moscow experience , I had not considered it necessary to prepare any argument formally or informally .
Artists simply do not talk to each other in that fashion ; ;
and , furthermore , I could not presume the implication that I spoke for American artists as a group .
To save time , some clarification seemed necessary .
The following is a statement read to a large and friendly group of your fellow artists in Leningrad :
`` We have come to your land with the express intention of understanding and respecting your ideas and your ways .
Our presence here should also be considered further , sincere evidence of the attempts by our people and their chosen government to seek any and all possible ways to effect closer , peaceful ties among all people .
We are quite convinced that one of the main hopes for the future depends upon the informal contacts and exchanges of ideas between individuals .
In spite of the relatively short period of time that we have experienced among you , we have already seen many indications of your character and spirit .
We are acutely aware that yours is a society which , in spite of several wars and many privations , has developed itself into one of the foremost nations of the world .
Your past history is resplendent with the fruits of the intellect .
Your present history is equally admirable for its industrial and scientific achievements .
We have come to you to experience something of your way of life while also attempting to acquaint you with that of ours .
While we , as American artists , believe deeply in the universal character of all intellectual activity , we would be less than honest with you , or ourselves , if we failed to state a specific attitude toward our own society as well as the international community as a whole .
In stating this position , we should like to make it clear to you that we cannot expect artists and intellectuals in other lands to share our opinion in every respect .
As a matter of fact , we prize the diversity among our own people so much that we will not presume to speak for all other American artists .
But certainly , all will agree that it is not so much the knowledge and search for similarities between you and us , but rather the thoughtful exploration and acceptance of our differences which may lead us to our respective and desired goals with a minimum of misunderstanding .
Like yourselves , we have pride and love for our country .
To many of us , this is a land to which we or our parents fled from totalitarian terror in order to live in dignified freedom .
As artists we feel the same obligation , as do other individuals , in considering ourselves responsible citizens of a great nation .
The Sane Society is an ambitious work .
Its scope is as broad as the question : What does it mean to live in modern society ? ?
A work so broad , even when it is directed by a leading idea and informed by a moral vision , must necessarily `` fail '' .
Even a hasty reader will easily find in it numerous blind spots , errors of fact and argument , important exclusions , areas of ignorance and prejudice , undue emphases on trivia , examples of broad positions supported by flimsy evidence , and the like .
Such books are easy prey for critics .
Nor need the critic be captious .
A careful and orderly man , who values precision and a kind of tough intellectual responsibility , might easily be put off by such a book .
It is a simple matter , for one so disposed , to take a work like The Sane Society and shred it into odds and ends .
The thing can be made to look like the cluttered attic of a large and vigorous family -- a motley jumble of discarded objects , some outworn and some that were never useful , some once whole and bright but now chipped and tarnished , some odd pieces whose history no one remembers , here and there a gem , everything fascinating because it suggests some part of the human condition -- the whole adding up to nothing more than a glimpse into the disorderly history of the makers and users .
That could be easily done , but there is little reason in it .
It would come down to saying that Fromm paints with a broad brush , and that , after all , is not a conclusion one must work toward but an impression he has from the outset .
I mention these features of the book because they are inherent in the book's character and therefore must be mentioned .
It would be superfluous to build a critique around them .
There are more substantial criticisms to be made of Fromm's account of capitalist civilization .
It is worthwhile to recall that Fromm's treatment has both descriptive and normative aspects .
Since I have already discussed his moral position , that discussion is incorporated by reference into the following pages , which will focus on the empirical and analytic side of Fromm's treatment .
I shall first indicate a couple of weaknesses in Fromm's analysis , then argue that , granted these weaknesses , he still has much left that is valuable , and , finally , raise the general question of a philosophical versus a sociological approach to the question of alienation .
Almost no empirical work has been done on the problem of alienation .
Despite its rather long intellectual history , alienation is still a promising hypothesis and not a verified theory .
The idea has received much attention in philosophy , in literature , and in a few works of general social criticism , such as The Sane Society .
What is missing is work that would answer , presumably by the use of survey methods and Guttman-type attitude scales , such questions as these : What are the components of the feeling-state described as alienation ? ?
How widespread is alienation ? ?
What is its incidence among the various classes and subgroups of the population ? ?
Taking alienation as a dependent variable , with what socio-structural factors is it most highly associated ? ?
Considered as an independent variable , how does it affect behavior in various sectors of life ? ?
Until such work is done , there must remain the nagging suspicion that alienation may be little more than an expression of the malaise of the intellectual , who , rejected by and in turn rejecting the larger society , projects his own fear and despair onto the broader social screen .
I am not suggesting that Fromm ought to do this kind of work .
Nor do I think that alienation is nothing more than a projection of the malaise of the intellectual .
I am saying only that until a fuller and different kind of evidence comes in , any discussion of alienation must be understood to have certain important limitations .
Until such evidence appears , we must make do with the evidence we have .
Here , perhaps , Fromm is vulnerable , for he does not always use the best and most recent evidence available , and he sometimes selects and interprets the evidence in rather special ways .
Three examples follow .
Fromm's analysis of alienation in the sphere of production centers around the concepts of the bureaucratization of the corporation , the separation of ownership from control , and the broad ( and thus from the point of view of corporate control , ineffective ) dispersion of stock ownership .
For all these points he relies exclusively on Berle and Means's study of 1932 , The Modern Corporation And Private Property .
The broad conclusions of that pioneering work remain undisturbed , but subsequent research has expanded and somewhat altered their empirical support , has suggested important revisions in the general analytic frame of reference , and has sharpened the meaning of particular analytic concepts in this area .
Fromm seems unaware of these developments .
Another example is his very infrequent use of the large amount of data from surveys designed to discover what and how people actually do feel and think on a broad range of topics : he cites such survey-type findings just three times .
Moreover , the conclusions he draws from the findings are not always the only ones possible .
For example , he cites the following data from two studies on job satisfaction : in the first study , 85 per cent of professionals and executives , 64 per cent of white collar people , and 41 per cent of factory workers expressed satisfaction with their jobs ; ;
in the second study , the percentages were 86 for professionals , 74 for managerial persons , 42 for commercial employees , 56 for skilled workers , and 48 for semi-skilled workers .
He concludes that these data show a `` remarkably high '' percentage of consciously dissatisfied and unhappy persons among factory and clerical workers .
Starting from other value premises than Fromm's , some analysts might conclude that the percentages really tell us very little at all , while others might even conclude that the figures are remarkably low .
Eric Hoffer , for example , once said that America was a paradise -- the only one in the history of the world -- for workingmen and small children .
What matters is that while Fromm's reading of the data is not the only one possible , it is precisely the one we would expect from a writer who earnestly believes that every man can and ought to be happy and satisfied .
Fromm also cites a poll on attitudes toward work restriction conducted by the Opinion Research Corporation in 1945 , in which 49 per cent of manual workers said a man ought to turn out as much as he could in a day's work , while 41 per cent said he should not do his best but should turn out only the average amount .
Fromm says these data show that job dissatisfaction and resentment are widespread .
That is one way to read the findings , but again there are other ways .
One might use such findings to indicate the strength of informal primary associations in the factory , an interpretation which would run counter to Fromm's theory of alienation .
Or , he might remind Fromm that the 41 per cent figure is really astonishingly low : after all , the medieval guild system was dedicated to the proposition that 100 per cent of the workers ought to turn out only the average amount ; ;
and today's trade unions announce pretty much the same view .
In view of these shortcomings in both the amount and the interpretation of survey-type findings on public opinion , and considering the criticisms which can be brought against Fromm's philosophical anthropology , such a passage as the following cannot be taken seriously .
`` Are people happy , are they as satisfied , unconsciously , as they believe themselves to be ? ?
Considering the nature of man , and the conditions for happiness , this can hardly be so '' .
The ambiguities suggested above stem from a more basic difficulty in Fromm's style of thought .
He seems to use the term alienation in two different ways .
Sometimes he uses it as a subjective , descriptive term , and sometimes as an objective , diagnostic one .
That is , sometimes it is used to describe felt human misery , and other times it is postulated to explain unfelt anxiety and discontent .
The failure to keep these two usages distinct presents hazards to the reader .
It also permits Fromm to do some dubious things with empirical findings .
When alienation is used as an objective and diagnostic category , for example , it becomes clear that Fromm would have to say that awareness of alienation goes far toward conquering it .
( He , in effect , does say this in his discussion of the pseudo-happiness of the automaton conformist .
) Starting from this , and accepting his estimate of the iniquities of modern society , it would follow that the really disturbing evidence of alienation would be that of a work-satisfaction survey which reported widespread , stated worker satisfaction , rather than widespread , stated worker dissatisfaction .
The point is that in a system such as Fromm's which recognizes unconscious motivations , and which rests on certain ethical absolutes , empirical data can be used to support whatever proposition the writer is urging at the moment .
Thus , in the example cited above Fromm rests his whole case on the premise that the workers are being deprived unconsciously , unknowingly , of fulfillment , and then supports this with survey data reporting conscious , experienced frustrations .
He has his cake and eats it too : if the workers say they are dissatisfied , this shows conscious alienation ; ;
if they say they are satisfied , this shows unconscious alienation .
This sort of manipulation is especially troublesome in Fromm's work because , although his system is derived largely from certain philosophic convictions , he asserts that it is based on empirical findings drawn both from social science and from his own consulting room .
While the `` empirical psychoanalytic '' label which Fromm claims sheds no light on the validity of his underlying philosophy , it does increase the marketability of his product .
The final example of the failure to use available evidence , though evidence of a different kind from that which has so far been considered , comes from Fromm's treatment of some other writers who have dealt with the same themes .
In a brief chapter dealing with `` Various Other Diagnoses '' , he quotes isolated passages from some writers whose views seem to corroborate his own , and finds it `` most remarkable that a critical view of twentieth-century society was already held by a number of thinkers living in the nineteenth .
'' He finds it equally `` remarkable that their critical diagnosis and prognosis should have so much in common among themselves and with the critics of the twentieth century '' .
There is nothing remarkable about this at all .
It is largely a matter of finding passages that suit one's purposes .
There is a difference between evidence and illustration , and Fromm's citation of the other diagnosticians fits the latter category .
Glance at the list : Burckhardt , Tolstoy , Proudhon , Thoreau , London , Marx , Tawney , Mayo , Durkheim , Tannenbaum , Mumford , A. R. Heron , Huxley , Schweitzer , and Einstein .
This is a delightfully motley collection .
One can make them say the same thing only by not listening to them very carefully and hearing only what one wants to hear .
The method of selection Fromm uses achieves exactly that .
Furthermore , the list is interesting for its omissions .
It omits , for example , practically the whole line of great nineteenth century English social critics , nearly all the great writers whose basic position is religious , and all those who are with more or less accuracy called Existentialists .
Of course , the list also excludes all writers who are fairly `` optimistic '' about the modern situation ; ;
these , almost by definition , are spokesmen for an alienated ideology .
It is not hard to find that concurrence of opinion which Fromm finds so remarkable when you ignore all who hold a different opinion .
Turning from these problems of the use of evidence , one meets another type of difficulty in Fromm's analysis , which is his loose and ambiguous use of certain important terms .
One such instance has already been presented : his use of alienation .
The only other one I shall mention here is his use of the term capitalism .
For Fromm , capitalism is the enemy , the root of all evil .
It is of course useful to have a sovereign cause on one's social criticism , for it makes diagnosis and prescription much easier than they might otherwise be .
If one characteristic distinguishes Boris Godunov , it is the consistency with which every person on the stage -- including the chorus -- comes alive in the music .
Much of this lifelike quality results from Mussorgsky's care in basing his vocal line on natural speech inflections .
In this he followed a path that led back to the very source of opera ; ;
such composers as Monteverdi , Lully and Purcell , with the same goal in mind , had developed styles of recitative sensitively attuned to their own languages .
Through long experimentation in his songs , Mussorgsky developed a Russian recitative as different from others as the language itself .
Giving most of his musical continuity to the orchestra , he lets the speech fall into place as if by coincidence , but controlling the pace and emphasis of the words .
The moments of sung melody , in the usual sense , come most often when the character is actually supposed to be singing , as in folk songs and liturgical chants .
Otherwise Mussorgsky reserves his vocal melodies for prolonged expressions of emotion -- Boris' first monologue , for example .
Even then , the flexibility of the phrasing suggests that the word comes first in importance .
Aside from Boris himself , one need but examine the secondary roles to place Mussorgsky among the masters of musical portraiture .
Even those who appear in only one or two scenes are full personalities , defined with economical precision .
Consider the four monks who figure prominently in the action : Pimen , Varlaam , Missail and the Jesuit Rangoni .
Under no circumstances could we mistake one for the other ; ;
each musical setting has an individual touch .
Pimen is an old man , weak in body -- his voice rarely rises to a full forte -- but firm and clear of mind .
His calmness offers contrast to Grigori's youthful excitement .
A quiet but sturdy theme , somewhat folklike in character , appears whenever the old monk speaks of the history he is recording or of his own past life :
This theme comes to represent the outer world , the realm of battles and banquets -- seen from a distance , quite distinct from the quieter spiritual life in the monastery .
It changes and develops according to the text ; ;
it introduces Pimen when he comes before Boris in the last act .
Once he has been identified , however , a new melody is used to accompany his narrative , a bleak motif with barren octaves creating a rather ancient effect :
An imaginative storyteller , Pimen takes on the character he describes , as if he were experiencing the old shepherd's blindness and miraculous cure .
Here the composer uses a favorite device of his , the intensification of the mood through key relationships .
The original D minor seems to symbolize blindness , inescapable in spite of all attempts to move away from it .
As the child addresses the shepherd in a dream , light -- in the form of the major mode -- begins to appear , and at the moment of the miracle we hear a clear and shining D major .
Varlaam and Missail always appear together and often sing together , in a straightforward , rhythmically vigorous idiom that distinguishes them from the more subtle and well-educated Pimen .
Their begging song might easily be a folk melody :
The same could be said for the song to which they make their entrance in the final scene .
Apparently their origin is humble , their approach to life direct and unsophisticated .
Whatever learning they may have had in their order doesn't disturb them now .
Missail is the straight man , not very talkative , mild-mannered when he does speak .
Varlaam is loud , rowdy , uninhibited in his pleasures and impatient with anyone who is not the same .
A rough ostinato figure , heard first in the introduction to the inn scene , characterizes him amusingly and reappears whenever he comes into the action :
The Song Of Kazan , in which this figure becomes a wild-sounding accompaniment , fills in the picture of undisciplined high spirits .
The phrasing is irregular , and the abrupt key changes have a primitive forcefulness .
( We can imagine how they startled audiences of the 1870's .
)
Varlaam's music begins to ramble as he feels the effects of the wine , but he pulls himself together when the need arises .
Both monks respond to the guard's challenge with a few phrases of their begging song ; ;
a clever naturalistic touch is Varlaam's labored reading of the warrant .
As the knack gradually comes back to him , his rhythm becomes steadier , with the rigid monotony of an unskilled reader .
For the only time in the opera , words are not set according to their natural inflection ; ;
to do so would have spoiled the dramatic point of the scene .
Musically and dramatically , Rangoni is as far removed from the conventional monk as Varlaam .
His music shows a sensuality coupled with an eerie quality that suggest somehow a blood-kinship with Dappertutto in Offenbach's Hoffman .
His speech shows none of the native accent of the Russian characters ; ;
in spite of the Italian name , he sounds French .
His personality appears more striking by contrast with Marina , who is -- perhaps purposely -- rather superficially characterized .
Rangoni's first entrance is a musical shock , a sudden open fifth in a key totally unrelated to what has preceded it .
The effect is as if he had materialized out of nowhere .
He speaks quietly , concealing his authority beneath a smooth humility , just as the shifting harmonies that accompany him all but hide the firm pedal point beneath them .
He addresses Marina with great deference , calling her `` Princess '' at first ; ;
it is only after he has involved her emotions in his scheme that he uses her given name , placing himself by implication in the position of a solicitous father .
Curiously , this scene is a close parallel to one that Verdi was writing at the same time , the scene between Amonasro and Aida .
Rangoni and Amonasro have the same purpose -- forcing the girl to charm the man she loves into serving her country's cause -- and their tactics are much the same .
Rangoni begins by describing the sad state of the Church ; ;
this brings a reaction of distress from Marina .
The music becomes ethereal as he calls up a vision of her own sainthood : it is she , he tells her , who can bring the truth to Russia and convert the heretics .
As if in a trance , she repeats his words -- then realizes , with a shock , her own audacity .
This is no assignment for a frivolous girl , she assures him .
Now Rangoni comes to the point , and we hear , for the first time , a long , downward chromatic scale that will become the characteristic motif of his sinister power .
It is a phrase as arresting as a magician's gesture , with a piquant turn of harmony giving an effect of strangeness .
Another theme , sinuously chromatic , appears as he directs her to gain power over Grigori by any means , even at the cost of her honor .
Coming from a priest , the music sounds as odd as the advice :
Marina rebels at this suggestion .
Her pride is as much at stake as her virtue ; ;
she is the unattainable beauty , the princess who turns away suitors by the dozen .
Indignantly she denounces Rangoni for his evil thoughts and orders him to leave her .
At once the Jesuit pulls out all the stops .
To music of a menacing darkness , he describes the powers of Satan gaining control of the girl , poisoning her soul with pride and destroying her beauty .
The combined threat of hell-fire and ugliness is too much for her , and she falls terrified at his feet .
With another sudden change of mood , he is again calm and protective , exhorting her to trust and obey him as God's spokesman -- and the chromatic scale descends in ominous contradiction .
Whatever the source of Rangoni's power , Marina is his captive now ; ;
we are reminded of this at the end of the next scene , when his theme cuts through the warmth of the love duet , again throwing a chill over the atmosphere .
The most unusual feature of Boris , however , is the use of the greatest character of all , the chorus .
This is the real protagonist of the drama ; ;
the conflict is not Boris versus Grigori or Shuiski or even the ghost of the murdered child , but Boris versus the Russian people .
Mussorgsky makes this quite clear by the extent to which choral scenes propel the action .
Boris' first entrance seems almost a footnote to the splendor of the Coronation Scene , with its dazzling confusion of tonalities .
We have a brief glimpse of the Tsar's public personality , the `` official Boris '' , but our real focus is on the excitement of the crowd -- a significant contrast with its halfhearted acclamation in the opening scene , its bitter resentment and fury in the final act .
One reason for the unique vitality of the chorus is its great variety in expression .
It rarely speaks as a unit .
Even in its most conventional appearance , the guests' song of praise to Marina , there are a few female dissenters criticizing the princess for her coldness .
In many passages -- for example , the council of boyars -- each section of the chorus becomes a character group with a particular opinion .
Hot arguments arise between tenors and basses , who will sing in harmony only when they agree on an idea .
The opening scene shows this method at its most individual .
Mussorgsky paints a telling picture of the common people , those who must suffer the effects of their rulers' struggle for power without understanding the causes .
They are held in control by force , but barely .
They will kneel and plead for Boris' leadership in a strangely intense song , its phrases irregularly broken as if gasping for breath , but when the police with their cudgels move away , they mock and grumble and fight among themselves .
There is a quick change from the plaintive song to a conversational tone .
`` Hey , Mityukh '' , asks one group , `` what are we shouting about '' ? ?
And Mityukh , apparently the intellectual leader of the crowd , replies that he has no notion .
The jokes and arguments grow louder until the police return ; ;
then the people strike up their song with even more fervor than before , ending it with a wail of despair .
Mussorgsky frequently uses liturgical music with considerable dramatic force .
In Pimen's cell the soft prayers of the monks , heard from offstage , not only help to set the scene but emphasize the contrast between young Grigori's thoughts and his situation .
This is especially striking between Pimen's quiet exit and Grigori's vehement outburst against Boris .
Again , as Boris feels himself nearing death , a procession files into the hall singing a hymn , its modal harmonies adding a churchly touch to the grim atmosphere : The words are hardly calculated to put the Tsar's mind at ease .
They echo the words with which he has described his own vision of the dying child who `` trembles and begs for mercy -- and there is no mercy '' .
The living as well as the dead now accuse him ; ;
this final reminder of his guilt is the fatal one .
One of the outstanding assets of the present production is the restoration of the St. Basil's scene , usually omitted from performances and rarely included in a published score .
Though brief , it has a sharp dramatic edge and great poignancy .
In addition , it is an important link in the plot , giving us a revealing glimpse of the people's attitude toward Boris and the false Dimitri .
The mayhem in the forest of Kromy is a natural sequel .
The St. Basil's scene opens with little groups of beggars milling around the square , the ever present police keeping them under scrutiny .
In the orchestra we hear first a hushed , hesitant pizzicato figure , then the insistent `` police '' motif as it appeared in the opening scene .
The service is over , and a number of people come from the church with their spokesman Mityukh in the lead .
They bring the news that the Pretender has been excommunicated ; ;
this is met with scorn by the hearers , who claim that Mityukh is lying or drunk .
( Mussorgsky cleverly contrasts the two groups by their orchestral accompaniment , solemn chords or mocking staccatos .
) There is still more news , Mityukh announces : they have prayed for the soul of the Tsarevich .
So far these remarks , like most criticisms of Hardy , have tacitly assumed that his poetry is all of a piece , one solid mass of verse expressing a sensibility at a single stage of development .
For critics , Hardy has had no poetic periods -- one does not speak of early Hardy or late Hardy , or of the London or Max Gate period , but simply of Hardy , as of a poetic monolith .
This seems odd when one recalls that he wrote poetry longer than any other major English poet : `` Domicilium '' is dated `` between 1857 and 1860 '' ; ;
`` Seeing The Moon Rise '' is dated August , 1927 .
One might expect that in a poetic career of seventy-odd years , some changes in style and method would have occurred , some development taken place .
This is not , however , the case , and development is a term which we can apply to Hardy only in a very limited sense .
In a time when poetic style , and poetic belief as well , seem in a state of continual flux , Hardy stands out as a poet of almost perverse consistency .
Though he struggled with philosophy all his life , he never got much beyond the pessimism of his twenties ; ;
the `` sober opinion '' of his letter to Noyes , written when Hardy was eighty years old , is essentially that of his first `` philosophical '' notebook entry , made when he was twenty-five : `` The world does not despise us : it only neglects us '' ( Early Life , p. 63 ) .
And though in his later years he revised his poems many times , the revisions did not alter the essential nature of the style which he had established before he was thirty ; ;
so that , while it usually is easy to recognize a poem by Hardy , it is difficult to date one .
There is only one sense in which it is valid to talk about Hardy's development : he did develop toward a more consistent and more effective control of that tone which we recognize as uniquely his .
There is only one Hardy style , but in the earlier poems that style is only intermittently evident , and when it is not , the style is the style of another poet , or of the fashion of the time .
In the later poems , however , the personal tone predominates .
The bad early poems are bad Shakespeare or bad Swinburne ; ;
the bad late poems are bad Hardy .
There are two ways of getting at a poet's development : through his dated poems , and through the revisions which he made in later editions of his work .
About a quarter of Hardy's poems carry an appended date line , usually the year of completion , but sometimes inclusive years ( `` 1908 - 1910 '' ) or two separate dates when Hardy worked on the poem ( `` 1905 and 1926 '' ) or an approximate date ( `` During the War '' ) .
These dates are virtually the only clues we have to the chronology of the poems , since the separate volumes are neither chronological within themselves nor in relation to each other .
With the exception of Satires Of Circumstance , each volume contains dated poems ranging over several decades ( Winter Words spans sixty-one years ) ; ;
the internal organization rarely has any chronological order , except in obvious groups like the `` Poems of Pilgrimage '' , the `` Poems of 1912 - 13 '' , and the war poems .
From the dated poems we can venture certain conclusions about Hardy's career in poetry , always remembering that conclusions based on a fraction of the whole must remain tentative .
The dated poems suggest that while Hardy's concern with poetry may have been constant , his production was not .
He had two productive periods , one in the late 1860's , the other in the decade from 1910 to 1920 ( half of the dated poems are from the latter period , and these alone total about one-tenth of all Hardy's poems ) .
There was one sterile period : only one poem is dated between 1872 and 1882 and , except for the poems written on the trip to Italy in 1887 , very few from 1882 to 1890 .
The dated poems also give us an idea of the degree to which Hardy drew upon past productions for his various volumes , and therefore probably are an indication of the amount of poetry he was writing at the time .
Poems Of The Past And The Present and Time's Laughing Stocks , both published while Hardy was at work on The Dynasts , draw heavily on poems written before 1900 .
Satires Of Circumstance and Moments Of Vision , coming during his most productive decade , are relatively self-contained ; ;
the former contains no poem dated before 1909 - 10 -- that is , no poem from a period covered by a previous volume -- and the latter has only a few such .
The last three volumes are again more dependent on the past , as Hardy's creative powers declined in his old age .
These observations about Hardy's productivity tally with the details of his life as we know them .
The first productive period came when he was considering poetry as a vocation , before he had decided to write fiction for a living ( in his note for Who's Who he wrote that he `` wrote verses 1865 - 1868 ; ;
gave up verse for prose , 1868 - 70 ; ;
but resumed it later '' ) .
During the poetically sterile years he was writing novels at the rate of almost one a year and was , in addition , burdened with bad health ( he spent six months in bed in 1881 , too ill to do more than work slowly and painfully at A Laodicean ) .
Two entries in The Early Life support the assumption that during this period Hardy had virtually suspended the writing of poetry .
Mrs. Hardy records that `` at the end of November ( 1881 ) he makes a note of an intention to resume poetry as soon as possible '' ( Early Life , p. 188 ) ; ;
and on Christmas Day , 1890 , Hardy wrote : `` While thinking of resuming ' the viewless Wings Of Poesy before dawn this morning , new horizons seemed to open , and worrying pettinesses to disappear '' ( Early Life , p. 302 ) .
There are more poems dated in the 1890's than in the '80's -- Hardy had apparently resumed the viewless wings as he decreased the volume of his fiction -- but none in 1891 , the year of Tess , and only one in 1895 , the year of Jude .
After 1895 the number increases , and in the next thirty years there is only one year for which there is no dated poem -- 1903 , when Hardy was at work on The Dynasts .
The second productive period , the decade from 1910 to 1920 , can be related to three events : the completion of The Dynasts in 1909 , which left Hardy free of pressure for the first time in forty years ; ;
the death of Emma Hardy in 1912 , which had a profound emotional effect on Hardy for which he found release in poetry ; ;
and the First World War .
It may seem strange that a poet should come to full fruition in his seventies , but we have it on Hardy's own authority that `` he was a child till he was sixteen , a youth till he was five-and-twenty , and a young man till he was nearly fifty '' ( Early Life , p. 42 ) .
We may carry this sequence one step further and say that at seventy he was a poet at the height of his powers , wanting only the impetus of two tragedies , one personal , the other national , to loose those powers in poetry .
Hardy's two productive decades were separated by forty years , yet between them he developed only in that he became more steadily himself -- it was a narrowing , not an expanding process .
Like a wise gardener , Hardy pruned away the Shakespearian sonnets and songs , and the elements of meter and poetic diction to which his personal style was not suited , and let the main stock of his talent flourish .
The range of the later poetry is considerably narrower , but the number of successful poems is far greater .
We can see the general characteristics of the earlier decade if we look at two poems of very different qualities : `` Revulsion '' ( 1866 ) and `` Neutral Tones '' ( 1867 ) .
There is not much to be said for `` Revulsion '' .
Like about half of the 1860 - 70 poems , it is a sonnet on a conventional theme -- the unhappiness of love .
Almost anyone could have written it ; ;
it is competent in the sense that it makes a coherent statement without violating the rules of the sonnet form , but it is entirely undistinguished and entirely unlike Hardy .
The language is the conventional language of the form ; ;
there is no phrase or image that sounds like Hardy or that is striking enough to give individuality to the poem .
It is smoother than Hardy usually is , but with the smoothness of anonymity .
It is obviously a young man's poem , written out of books and not out of experience ; ;
it asserts emotion without evoking it -- that is to say , it is sentimental .
There are many such competently anonymous performances among the earlier poems .
`` Neutral Tones '' we immediately recognize as a fine poem in Hardy's most characteristic style : the plain but not quite colloquial language , the hard , particular , colorless images , the slightly odd stanza-form , the dramatic handling of the occasion , the refusal to resolve the issue -- all these we have seen in Hardy's best poems .
The poem does not distort the syntax of ordinary speech nor draw on exotic sources of diction , yet it is obviously not ordinary speech -- only Hardy would say `` a grin of bitterness swept thereby ; ;
like an ominous bird a-wing '' , or `` wrings with wrong '' , or would describe a winter sun as `` God-curst '' .
The details of the setting of `` Neutral Tones '' are not , strictly speaking , metaphorical , but they combine to create a mood which is appropriate both to a dismal winter day and to the end of love , and in this way love and weather , the emotions and the elements , symbolize each other in a way that is common to many of Hardy's best poems ( `` Weathers '' , `` The Darkling Thrush '' , and `` During Wind and Rain '' , for example ) and to some moving passages in the novels as well ( Far From The Madding Crowd is full of scenes constructed in this way ) .
`` Neutral Tones '' is an excellent example of Hardy's mature style , drawn from his earliest productive period ; ;
I cite it as evidence that he did not develop through new styles as he grew older ( as Yeats did ) , but that he simply learned to use better what he already had .
In the poem we recognize and acknowledge one man's sense of the world ; ;
if it is somber , it is also precise , and the precision lends authority to the vision .
In `` Revulsion '' , on the other hand , the pessimism is a case not proven ; ;
the poem offers nothing to persuade us of the speaker's right to speak as he does .
In the 1860 - 70 decade there are many poems like `` Revulsion '' , but there is only one `` Neutral Tones '' .
Hardy was not Hardy very often .
The `` Poems of 1912 - 13 '' offer a good example of Hardy's style as it was manifested in the later productive decade .
These are the poems Hardy wrote after the death of his first wife ; ;
they compose a painful elegy to what might have been , to a marriage that began with a promise of happiness , and ended in long years of suffering and hatred .
Hardy obviously felt that these poems were peculiarly personal and private ; ;
he sometimes called them `` an expiation '' , and he would not allow them to be published in periodicals .
They are the only poems that he rearranged as a group between their first appearance ( in Satires Of Circumstance ) and the publication of the Collected Poems .
The elegiac tone is Hardy's natural tone of voice , and it is not surprising that the 1912 - 13 poems are consistently and unmistakably his .
The view is always toward the past ; ;
but the mood is not quite nostalgic -- Hardy would not allow sentiment to soften his sense of the irredeemable pastness of the past , and the eternal deadness of the dead .
The poems are , the epigraph tells us , the `` traces of an ancient flame '' ; ;
the fire of love is dead , and Hardy stands , as the speaker does in the last poem of the sequence , over the burnt circle of charred sticks , and thinks of past happiness and present grief , honest and uncomforted .
Critically invisible , modern revolt , like X-rays and radioactivity , is perceived only by its effects at more materialistic social levels , where it is called delinquency .
`` Disaffiliation '' , by the way , is the term used by the critic and poet , Lawrence Lipton , who has written several articles on this subject , the first of which , in The Nation , quoted as Epigraph : `` We disaffiliate .
'' -- John L. Lewis .
Like the pillars of Hercules , like two ruined Titans guarding the entrance to one of Dante's circles , stand two great dead juvenile delinquents -- the heroes of the post-war generation : the great saxophonist , Charlie Parker , and Dylan Thomas .
If the word deliberate means anything , both of them certainly deliberately destroyed themselves .
Both of them were overcome by the horror of the world in which they found themselves , because at last they could no longer overcome that world with the weapon of a purely lyrical art .
Both of them were my friends .
Living in San Francisco I saw them seldom enough to see them with a perspective which was not distorted by exasperation or fatigue .
So as the years passed , I saw them each time in the light of an accelerated personal conflagration .
The last time I saw Bird , at Jimbo's Bob City , he was so gone -- so blind to the world -- that he literally sat down on me before he realized I was there .
`` What happened , man '' ? ?
I said , referring to the pretentious `` Jazz Concert '' .
`` Evil , man , evil '' , he said , and that's all he said for the rest of the night .
About dawn he got up to blow .
The rowdy crowd chilled into stillness and the fluent melody spiraled through it .
The last time I saw Dylan , his self-destruction had not just passed the limits of rationality .
It had assumed the terrifying inertia of inanimate matter .
Being with him was like being swept away by a torrent of falling stones .
Now Dylan Thomas and Charlie Parker have a great deal more in common than the same disastrous end .
As artists , they were very similar .
They were both very fluent .
But this fluent , enchanting utterance had , compared with important artists of the past , relatively little content .
Neither of them got very far beyond a sort of entranced rapture at his own creativity .
The principal theme of Thomas's poetry was the ambivalence of birth and death -- the pain of blood-stained creation .
Music , of course , is not so explicit an art , but anybody who knew Charlie Parker knows that he felt much the same way about his own gift .
Both of them did communicate one central theme : Against the ruin of the world , there is only one defense -- the creative act .
This , of course , is the theme of much art -- perhaps most poetry .
It is the theme of Horace , who certainly otherwise bears little resemblance to Parker or Thomas .
The difference is that Horace accepted his theme with a kind of silken assurance .
To Dylan and Bird it was an agony and terror .
I do not believe that this is due to anything especially frightful about their relationship to their own creativity .
I believe rather that it is due to the catastrophic world in which that creativity seemed to be the sole value .
Horace's column of imperishable verse shines quietly enough in the lucid air of Augustan Rome .
Art may have been for him the most enduring , orderly , and noble activity of man .
But the other activities of his life partook of these values .
They did not actively negate them .
Dylan Thomas's verse had to find endurance in a world of burning cities and burning Jews .
He was able to find meaning in his art as long as it was the answer to air raids and gas ovens .
As the world began to take on the guise of an immense air raid or gas oven , I believe his art became meaningless to him .
I think all this could apply to Parker just as well , although , because of the nature of music , it is not demonstrable -- at least not conclusively .
Thomas and Parker have more in common than theme , attitude , life pattern .
In the practice of their art , there is an obvious technical resemblance .
Contrary to popular belief , they were not great technical innovators .
Their effects are only superficially startling .
Thomas is a regression from the technical originality and ingenuity of writers like Pierre Reverdy or Apollinaire .
Similarly , the innovations of bop , and of Parker particularly , have been vastly overrated by people unfamiliar with music , especially by that ignoramus , the intellectual jitterbug , the jazz aficionado .
The tonal novelties consist in the introduction of a few chords used in classical music for centuries .
And there is less rhythmic difference between progressive jazz , no matter how progressive , and Dixieland , than there is between two movements of many conventional symphonies .
What Parker and his contemporaries -- Gillespie , Davis , Monk , Roach ( Tristano is an anomaly ) , etc. -- did was to absorb the musical ornamentation of the older jazz into the basic structure , of which it then became an integral part , and with which it then developed .
This is true of the melodic line which could be put together from selected passages of almost anybody -- Benny Carter , Johnny Hodges .
It is true of the rhythmic pattern in which the beat shifts continuously , or at least is continuously sprung , so that it becomes ambiguous enough to allow the pattern to be dominated by the long pulsations of the phrase or strophe .
This is exactly what happened in the transition from baroque to rococo music .
It is the difference between Bach and Mozart .
It is not a farfetched analogy to say that this is what Thomas did to poetry .
The special syntactical effects of a Rimbaud or an Edith Sitwell -- actually ornaments -- become the main concern .
The metaphysical conceits , which fascinate the Reactionary Generation still dominant in backwater American colleges , were embroideries .
Thomas's ellipses and ambiguities are ends in themselves .
The immediate theme , if it exists , is incidental , and his main theme -- the terror of birth -- is simply reiterated .
This is one difference between Bird and Dylan which should be pointed out .
Again , contrary to popular belief , there is nothing crazy or frantic about Parker either musically or emotionally .
His sinuous melody is a sort of naive transcendence of all experience .
Emotionally it does not resemble Berlioz or Wagner ; ;
it resembles Mozart .
This is true also of a painter like Jackson Pollock .
He may have been eccentric in his behavior , but his paintings are as impassive as Persian tiles .
Partly this difference is due to the nature of verbal communication .
The insistent talk-aboutiveness of the general environment obtrudes into even the most idyllic poetry .
It is much more a personal difference .
Thomas certainly wanted to tell people about the ruin and disorder of the world .
Parker and Pollock wanted to substitute a work of art for the world .
Technique pure and simple , rendition , is not of major importance , but it is interesting that Parker , following Lester Young , was one of the leaders of the so-called saxophone revolution .
In modern jazz , the saxophone is treated as a woodwind and played with conventional embouchure .
Metrically , Thomas's verse was extremely conventional , as was , incidentally , the verse of that other tragic enrage , Hart Crane .
I want to make clear what I consider the one technical development in the first wave of significant post-war arts .
Ornament is confabulation in the interstices of structure .
A poem by Dylan Thomas , a saxophone solo by Charles Parker , a painting by Jackson Pollock -- these are pure confabulations as ends in themselves .
Confabulation has come to determine structure .
Uninhibited lyricism should be distinguished from its exact opposite -- the sterile , extraneous invention of the corn-belt metaphysicals , or present blight of poetic professors .
Just as Hart Crane had little influence on anyone except very reactionary writers -- like Allen Tate , for instance , to whom Valery was the last word in modern poetry and the felicities of an Apollinaire , let alone a Paul Eluard were nonsense -- so Dylan Thomas's influence has been slight indeed .
In fact , his only disciple -- the only person to imitate his style -- was W. S. Graham , who seems to have imitated him without much understanding , and who has since moved on to other methods .
Thomas's principal influence lay in the communication of an attitude -- that of the now extinct British romantic school of the New Apocalypse -- Henry Treece , J. F. Hendry , and others -- all of whom were quite conventional poets .
Parker certainly had much more of an influence .
At one time it was the ambition of every saxophone player in every high school band in America to blow like Bird .
Even before his death this influence had begun to ebb .
In fact , the whole generation of the founding fathers of bop -- Gillespie , Monk , Davis , Blakey , and the rest -- are just now at a considerable discount .
The main line of development today goes back to Lester Young and by-passes them .
The point is that many of the most impressive developments in the arts nowadays are aberrant , idiosyncratic .
There is no longer any sense of continuing development of the sort that can be traced from Baudelaire to Eluard , or for that matter , from Hawthorne through Henry James to Gertrude Stein .
The cubist generation before World War 1 , , and , on a lower level , the surrealists of the period between the wars , both assumed an accepted universe of discourse , in which , to quote Andre Breton , it was possible to make definite advances , exactly as in the sciences .
I doubt if anyone holds such ideas today .
Continuity exits , but like the neo-swing music developed from Lester Young , it is a continuity sustained by popular demand .
In the plastic arts , a very similar situation exists .
Surrealists like Hans Arp and Max Ernst might talk of creation by hazard -- of composing pictures by walking on them with painted soles , or by tossing bits of paper up in the air .
But it is obvious that they were self-deluded .
Nothing looks anything like an Ernst or an Arp but another Ernst or Arp .
Nothing looks less like their work than the happenings of random occasion .
Many of the post-World War 2 , abstract expressionists , apostles of the discipline of spontaneity and hazard , look alike , and do look like accidents .
The aesthetic appeal of pure paint laid on at random may exist , but it is a very impoverished appeal .
Once again what has happened is an all-consuming confabulation of the incidentals , the accidents of painting .
It is curious that at its best , the work of this school of painting -- Mark Rothko , Jackson Pollock , Clyfford Still , Robert Motherwell , Willem De-Kooning , and the rest -- resembles nothing so much as the passage painting of quite unimpressive painters : the mother-of-pearl shimmer in the background of a Henry McFee , itself a formula derived from Renoir ; ;
the splashes of light and black which fake drapery in the fashionable imitators of Hals and Sargent .
Often work of this sort is presented as calligraphy -- the pure utterance of the brush stroke seeking only absolute painteresque values .
You have only to compare such painting with the work of , say , Sesshu , to realize that someone is using words and brushes carelessly .
At its best the abstract expressionists achieve a simple rococo decorative surface .
Its poverty shows up immediately when compared with Tiepolo , where the rococo rises to painting of extraordinary profundity and power .
A Tiepolo painting , however confabulated , is a universe of tensions in vast depths .
A Pollock is an object of art -- bijouterie -- disguised only by its great size .
In fact , once the size is big enough to cover a whole wall , it turns into nothing more than extremely expensive wallpaper .
Now there is nothing wrong with complicated wallpaper .
There is just more to Tiepolo .
The great Ashikaga brush painters painted wallpapers , too -- at least portable ones , screens .
A process of elimination which leaves the artist with nothing but the play of his materials themselves cannot sustain interest in either artist or public for very long .
So , in the last couple of years , abstract expressionism has tended toward romantic suggestion -- indications of landscape or living figures .
Anglo-Saxon and Greek epic each provide on two occasions a seemingly authentic account of the narration of verse in the heroic age .
Hrothgar's court bard sings of the encounters at Finnsburg ( lines 1068 - 1159 ) , and improvises the tale of Beowulf's exploits in a complimentary comparison of the Geatish visitor with Sigemund ( lines 871 - 892 ) ; ;
Alcinous' court bard sings of the discovered adultery of Ares and Aphrodite ( Odyssey 8 266-366 ) , and takes up a tale of Odysseus while the Ithacan wanderer listens on ( Odyssey 8 499-520 ) .
Nothing in all this is autobiographical : unlike the poets of Deor and Widsith , the poet of Beowulf is not concerned with his own identity ; ;
the poet of The Odyssey , reputed blind , reveals himself not at all in singing of the blind minstrel Demodocus .
Since none of these glimpses of poetizing without writing is intended to incorporate a signature into the epic matter , there is prima-facie evidence that Beowulf and the Homeric poems each derive from an oral tradition .
That such a tradition lies behind The Iliad and The Odyssey , at least , is hard to deny .
Milman Parry rigorously defended the observation that the extant Homeric poems are largely formulaic , and was led to postulate that they could be shown entirely formulaic if the complete corpus of Greek epic survived ; ;
he further reasoned that frequent formulas in epic verse indicate oral composition , and assumed the slightly less likely corollary that oral epic is inclined towards the use of formulas .
Proceeding from Parry's conclusions and adopting one of his schemata , Francis P. Magoun , Jr. , argues that Beowulf likewise was created from a legacy of oral formulas inherited and extended by bards of successive generations , and the thesis is striking and compelling .
Yet a fresh inspection will indicate one crucial amendment : Beowulf and the Homeric poems are not at all formulaic to the same extent .
The bondage endurable by an oral poet is to be estimated only by a very skilful oral poet , but it appears safe to assume that no sustained narrative in rhyme could be composed without extreme difficulty , even in a language of many terminal inflections .
Assonance seems nearly as severe a curb , although in a celebrated passage William of Malmesbury declares that A Song Of Roland was intoned before the battle commenced at Hastings .
The Anglo-Saxon alliterative line and the Homeric hexameter probably imposed less of a restraint ; ;
the verse of Beowulf or of The Iliad and The Odyssey was not easy to create but was not impossible for poets who had developed their talents perforce in earning a livelihood .
Yet certain aids were valuable and quite credibly necessary for reciting long stretches of verse without a pause .
The poet in a written tradition who generally never blots a line may once in a while pause and polish without incurring blame .
But the oral poet cannot pause ; ;
he must improvise continuously with no apparent effort .
Even though the bondage of his verse is not so great as the writing poet can manage , it is still great enough for him often to be seriously impeded unless he has aids to facilitate rapid composition .
The Germanic poet had such aids in the kennings , which provided for the difficulties of alliteration ; ;
the Homeric poet had epithets , which provided for recurring needs in the hexameter .
Either poet could quickly and easily select words or phrases to supply his immediate requirements as he chanted out his lines , because the kennings and the epithets made possible the construction of systems of numerous synonyms for the chief common and proper nouns .
Other synonyms could of course serve the same function , and for the sake of ease I shall speak of kennings and epithets in the widest and loosest possible sense , and name , for example , Gar-Dene a kenning for the Danes .
Verbal and adverbial elements too participated in each epic diction , but it is for the present sufficient to mark the large nominal and adjectival supply of semantic near-equivalents , and to designate the members of any system of equivalents as basic formulas of the poetic language .
Limited to a few thousand lines of heroic verse in Anglo-Saxon as in the other Germanic dialects , we cannot say how frequently the kennings in Beowulf recurred in contemporary epic on the same soil .
But we can say that since a writing poet , with leisure before him , would seem unlikely to invent a technique based upon frequent and substantial circumlocution , the kennings like the epithets must reasonably be ascribed to an oral tradition .
One of the greatest Homerists of our time , Frederick M. Combellack , argues that when it is assumed The Iliad and The Odyssey are oral poems , the postulated single redactor called Homer cannot be either credited with or denied originality in choice of phrasing .
Any example of grand or exquisite diction may have been created by the poet who compiled numerous lays into the two works we possess or may be due to one of his completely unknown fellow-craftsmen .
The quest of the historical Homer is likely never to have further success ; ;
no individual word in The Iliad or The Odyssey can be credited to any one man ; ;
no strikingly effective element of speech in the extant poems can with assurance be said not to have been a commonplace in the vaster epic corpus that may have existed at the beginning of the first millennium before Christ .
This observation is of interest not only to students of Homeric poetry but to students of Anglo-Saxon poetry as well .
To the extent that a tale is twice told , its final author must be suspect , although plagiarism in an oral tradition is less a misdemeanor than the standard modus dicendi .
Combellack argues further , and here he makes his main point , that once The Iliad and The Odyssey are thought formulaic poems composed for an audience accustomed to formulaic poetry , Homeric critics are deprived of an entire domain they previously found arable .
With a few important and a few more unimportant exceptions , no expression can be deemed le mot juste for its context , because each was very probably the only expression that long-established practice and ease of rapid recitation would allow .
Words or phrases that connoisseurs have admired as handsome or ironic or humorous must therefore lose merit and become regarded as mere inevitable time-servers , sometimes accurate and sometimes not .
This observation too may have reference to Anglo-Saxon poetry .
To the extent that a language is formulaic , its individual components must be regarded as no more distinguished than other cliches .
W. F. Bryan suggests that certain kennings in Beowulf were selected sometimes for appropriateness and sometimes for ironic inappropriateness , but such a view would appear untenable unless it is denied that the language of Beowulf is formulaic .
If the master of scops who was most responsible for the poem ever used kennings that were traditional , he was at least partly deprived of free will and not inclined towards shrewd and sophisticated misuse of speech elements .
Once many significant phrases are found in theory or in recurrent practice to provide for prosodic necessity , they are not to be defended for their semantic properties in isolated contexts .
It is false to be certain of having discovered in the language of Beowulf such effects as intentional irony .
Yet , if the argument is turned awry , there may be found a great deal in Bryan's view , after all .
A formulaic element need not be held meaningless merely because it was selected with little conscious reflection .
Time-servers , though the periphrastic expressions are , they may nevertheless be handsome or ironic or humorous .
A long evolution in an oral tradition caused the poetic language of the heroic age to be based upon formulas that show the important qualities of things , and these formulas are therefore potentially rather than always actually accurate .
True , we do not know how they were regarded in their day , but we need not believe the epic audience to have been more insensitive to the formulas than the numerous scholars of modern times who have read Germanic or Homeric poetry all their lives and still found much to admire in occasional occurrences of the most familiar phrases .
Nouns and adjectives in a written tradition are chosen for the nonce ; ;
in an oral tradition they may be chosen for the entire epic corpus , and tend towards idealization rather than distinctive delineation .
Reliance is therefore not to be placed upon the archaeological particulars in an oral poem ; ;
no-one today would hope to discover the unmistakable ruins of Heorot or the palace of Priam .
A ship at dry-dock could be called a foamy-necked floater in Anglo-Saxon or a swift ship in Greek .
Even when defenseless of weapons the Danes would be Gar-Dene ( as their king is Hrothgar ) and Priam would be EUMMELIHS .
Achilles , like Siegfried in The Nibelungenlied , is potentially the swiftest of men and may accordingly be called swift-footed even when he stands idle .
In Coriolanus the agnomen of Marcius is used deliberately and pointedly , but the Homeric epithets and the Anglo-Saxon kennings are used casually and recall to the hearer `` a familiar story or situation or a useful or pleasant quality of the referent '' .
The epic language was not entirely the servant of the poet ; ;
it was partly his master .
The poet's intentions are difficult to discern and , except to biographers , unimportant ; ;
the language , however , is a proper object of scrutiny , and the effects of the language are palpable even if sometimes inevitable .
Beowulf and the Homeric poems appear oral compositions .
Yet they are written ; ;
at some stage in their evolution they were transcribed .
Albert B. Lord suggests that the Homeric poems were dictated to a scribe by a minstrel who held in his mind the poems fully matured but did not himself possess the knowledge of writing since it would be useless to his guild , and Magoun argues that the Beowulf poet and Cynewulf may have dictated their verse in the same fashion .
This explanation is attractive , but is vitiated at least in part by the observation that Cynewulf , though he used kennings in the traditional manner , was a literate man who four times inscribed his name by runes into his works .
If Cynewulf was literate , the Beowulf poet may have been also , and so may the final redactor of The Iliad and The Odyssey .
In lieu of the amanuensis to the blind or illiterate bard , one may conceive of a man who heard a vast store of oral poetry recited , and became intimately familiar with the established aids to poetizing , and himself wrote his own compositions or his edition of the compositions of the past .
Other theories of origin are compatible with the formulaic theory : Beowulf may contain a design for terror , and The Iliad may have a vast hysteron-proteron pattern answering to a ceramic pattern produced during the Geometric Period in pottery .
The account of the growth and final transcription of these epics rests partly , however , upon the degree to which they were formulaic .
Carl Eduard Schmidt counted 1804 different lines repeated exactly in the two Homeric poems , and by increasing this figure so as to include lines repeated with very slight modifications he counted 2118 different lines used a total of 5612 times .
Thus one line in five from The Iliad and The Odyssey is to be found somewhere else in the two poems .
The ratio is thoroughly remarkable , because the lines are so long -- half again as long as those of Beowulf .
Anglo-Saxon poetry appears to have no comparable amount of repetition ; ;
there is no reason to think that the scop used and re-used whole lines and even lengthy passages after the manner of his Homeric colleague .
In determining the extent to which any poem is formulaic it is idle , however , to inspect nothing besides lines repeated in their entirety , for a stock of line-fragments would be sufficient to permit the poet to extemporize with deftness if they provided for prosodic needs .
The closest scrutiny is owed to the Anglo-Saxon kennings and the Homeric epithets ; ;
if any words or phrases are formulaic , they will be .
The Iliad has two words for the shield , ASPIS and SAKOS .
Recent criticism of Great Expectations has tended to emphasize its symbolic and mythic content , to show , as M. D. Zabel has said of Dickens generally , that much of the novel's impact resides in its `` allegoric insight and moral metaphor '' .
J. H. Miller's excellent chapter on Great Expectations has lately illustrated how fruitfully that novel can be read from such a perspective .
In his analysis , however , he touches upon but fails to explore an idea , generally neglected in discussions of the book , which I believe is central to its art -- the importance of human hands as a recurring feature of the narrative .
This essay seeks to make that exploration .
Dickens was not for nothing the most theatrical of the great Victorian writers .
He knew instinctively that next to voice and face an actor's hands are his most useful possession -- that in fiction as in the theatre , gesture is an indispensable shorthand for individualizing character and dramatizing action and response .
It is hardly accidental , therefore , that many of his most vivid figures do suggestive or eccentric things with their hands .
In Great Expectations the hands become almost an obsession .
Mr. Jaggers habitually bites his forefinger , a gesture which conveys both contempt and the inscrutable abstractedness that half fascinates , half terrifies all who have dealings with him .
Miss Havisham's withered hands , heavy as if her unhappiness were somehow concentrated in them , move in restless self-pity between her broken heart and her walking stick .
Pumblechook's `` signature '' is the perpetually extended glad hand .
Wemmick reveals his self-satisfaction by regularly rubbing his hands together .
Old Mr. Pocket's frantic response to life imprisonment with a useless , social-climbing wife is to `` put his two hands into his disturbed hair '' and `` make an extraordinary effort to lift himself up by it '' , whereas Joe Gargery endures the shrewish onslaughts of Mrs. Joe by apologetically drawing `` the back of his hand across and across his nose '' .
Such mannerisms would be less worthy of remark , were it not that in Great Expectations , as in no other of Dickens' novels , hands serve as a leitmotif of plot and theme -- a kind of unifying symbol or natural metaphor for the book's complex of human interrelationships and the values and attitudes that motivate them .
Dickens not only reveals character through gesture , he makes hands a crucial element of the plot , a means of clarifying the structure of the novel by helping to define the hero's relations with all the major characters , and a device for ordering such diverse themes as guilt , pursuit , crime , greed , education , materialism , enslavement ( by both people and institutions ) , friendship , romantic love , forgiveness , and redemption .
We have only to think of Lady Macbeth or the policeman-murderer in Thomas Burke's famous story , `` The Hands Of Mr. Ottermole '' , to realize that hands often call up ideas of crime and punishment .
So it is with Great Expectations , whether the hands be Orlick's as he strikes down Mrs. Gargery or Pip's as he steals a pie from her pantry .
Such associations suit well with the gothic or mystery-story aspects of Dickens' novel , but , on a deeper plane , they relate to the themes of sin , guilt , and pursuit that have recently been analyzed by other critics .
The novel opens with a fugitive convict frantically trying to avoid the nemesis of being `` laid hands on '' -- a mysterious figure who looks into Pip's frightened eyes in the churchyard `` as if he were eluding the hands of the dead people , stretching up cautiously out of their graves , to get a twist upon his ankle and pull him in '' .
Magwitch terrifies Pip into stealing a pork pie for him by creating the image in the boy's imagination of a bogy man who may `` softly creep his way to him and tear him open '' , `` imbruing his hands '' in him .
As Pip agonizes over the theft that his own hands have committed , his guilty conscience projects itself upon the wooden finger of a local signpost , transforming it into `` a phantom devoting me to the Hulks '' .
Held upside down in the graveyard , Pip clings in terror `` with both hands '' to his convict ; ;
later he flees in panic from the family table just as his theft is about to be discovered and is blocked at the front door by a soldier who accusingly holds out a pair of handcuffs which he has brought to Gargery's forge for mending .
Through such details Dickens indicates at the outset that guilt is a part of the ironic bond between Pip and Magwitch which is so unpredictably to alter both their lives .
Since they commonly translate thoughts and feelings into deeds , hands naturally represent action , and since nearly half the characters in Great Expectations are of the underworld or closely allied to it , the linking of hands with crime or violence is not to be wondered at .
Dickens , for excellent psychological reasons , never fully reveals Magwitch's felonious past , but Pip , at the convict's climactic reappearance in London , shrinks from clasping a hand which he fears `` might be stained with blood '' .
Orlick slouches about the forge `` like Cain '' with `` his hands in his pockets '' , and when he shouts abuse at Mrs. Joe for objecting to his holiday , she claps her hands in a tantrum , beats them `` upon her bosom and upon her knees '' , and clenches them in her husband's hair .
This last `` rampage '' is only the prelude to the vicious blow upon her head , `` dealt by some unknown hand '' whose identity is later revealed not verbally but through a manual action -- the tracing of Orlick's hammer upon a slate .
Pip himself is to feel the terror of Orlick's `` murderous hand '' in his secret rendezvous at the sluicehouse on the marshes .
Dickens lays great emphasis on the hands in this scene .
Orlick shakes his hand at Pip , bangs the table with his fist , draws his unclenched hand `` across his mouth as if his mouth watered '' for his victim , lets his hands hang `` loose and heavy at his sides '' , and Pip observes him so intensely that he knows `` of the slightest action of his fingers '' .
Orlick might almost be Magwitch's bogy man come alive , a figure of nemesis from Pip's phantasy of guilt .
The scarred , disfigured wrists of Mr. Jaggers' housekeeper are the tell-tale marks of her sinister past , for her master , coolly exhibiting them to his dinner guests , makes a point of the `` force of grip there is in these hands '' .
Jaggers' iron control over her ( `` she would remove her hands from any dish she put before him , hesitatingly , as if she dreaded his calling her back ) '' ) rests on his having once got her acquitted of a murder charge by cleverly contriving her sleeves at the trial to conceal her strength and by passing off the lacerations on the backs of her hands as the scratches of brambles rather than of human fingernails .
It is the similarity between Estella's hands and Molly's ( `` The action of her fingers was like the action of knitting '' ) that provides Pip with a vital clue to the real identity of both and establishes a symbolic connection between the underworld of crime and the genteel cruelty of Satis House .
Finally , Magwitch's pursuit of Compeyson , his archenemy and betrayer , begins by his holding him in a vicelike grip on the river flats to frustrate his escape and culminates in his `` laying his hand on his cloak to identify him '' , thus precipitating the death-locked struggle in the water during which Compeyson drowns .
Magwitch's hand here ironically becomes the agent of justice .
But only in one of its aspects is Great Expectations a tale of violence , revenge , and retribution .
Money , so important a theme elsewhere in Dickens , is here central , and hands are often associated in some way with the false values -- acquisitiveness , snobbery , self-interest , hypocrisy , toadyism , irresponsibility , injustice -- that attach to a society based upon the pursuit of wealth .
Dickens suggests the economic evils of such a society on the first page of his novel in the description of Pip's five little dead brothers `` who gave up trying to get a living exceedingly early in that universal struggle '' , who seemed to have `` all been born on their backs with their hands in their trousers-pockets , and had never taken them out in this state of existence '' .
Pip's great expectations , his progress through illusion and disillusionment , turn , somewhat as they do for the naive hero of Dreiser's American Tragedy , upon the lure of genteel prosperity through unearned income -- what Wemmick calls `` portable property '' and what Jaggers reproaches Pip for letting `` slip through ( his ) fingers '' .
Since a gentleman must , if possible , avoid sullying them by work , his hands , as importantly as his accent , become the index of social status .
Almost the first step in the corruption of Pip's values is the unworthy shame he feels when Estella cruelly remarks the coarseness of his hands : `` They had never troubled me before , but they troubled me now , as vulgar appendages '' .
Pip imagines how Estella would look down upon Joe's hands , roughened by work in the smithy , and the deliberate contrast between her white hands and his blackened ones is made to symbolize the opposition of values between which Pip struggles -- idleness and work , artificiality and naturalness , gentility and commonness , coldness and affection -- in fact , between Satis House and the forge .
When the snobbery that alienates Pip from Joe finally gives way before the deeper and stronger force of love , the reunion is marked by an embarrassed handshake at which Pip exclaims : `` No , don't wipe it off -- for God's sake , give me your blackened hand '' ! !
Pip's abject leave-taking of Miss Havisham , during which he kneels to kiss her hand , signalizes his homage to a supposed patroness who seems to be opening up for him a new world of glamour ; ;
when , on the journey to London that immediately follows , he pauses nostalgically to lay his hand upon the finger-post at the end of the village , the wooden pointer symbolically designates a spiritual frontier between innocence and the corruption of worldly vanity .
Incidentally , one cannot miss the significance of this gesture , for Dickens reintroduces it associatively in Pip's mind at another moral and psychological crisis -- his painful recognition , in a talk with Herbert Pocket , that his hopeless attachment to Estella is as self-destructive as it is romantic .
In both cases the finger-post represents Pip's heightened awareness of contrary magnetisms .
A variety of hand movements helps dramatize the moral climate of the fallen world Pip encounters beyond the forge .
The vulture-like attendance of the Pocket family upon Miss Havisham is summed up in the hypocritical gestures of Miss Camilla Pocket , who puts her hand to her throat in a feigned spasm of grief-stricken choking , then lays it `` upon her heaving bosom '' with `` an unnatural fortitude of manner '' , and finally kisses it to Miss Havisham in a parody of the lady's own mannerism toward Estella .
Pumblechook's hands throughout the novel serve to travesty greed and hypocritical self-aggrandizement .
We first see him shaking Mrs. Joe's hand on discovering the sizable amount of the premium paid to her husband for Pip's indenture as an apprentice and later pumping Pip's hands `` for the hundredth time at least '' ( `` May I -- may I -- '' ? ?
) in effusive congratulation to Pip on his expectations .
We take leave of Pumblechook as he gloats over Pip's loss of fortune , extending his hand `` with a magnificently forgiving air '' and exhibiting `` the same fat five fingers '' , one of which he identifies with `` the finger of Providence '' and shakes at Pip in a canting imputation of the latter's `` ingratitoode '' and his own generosity as Pip's `` earliest benefactor '' .
Pip first learns `` the stupendous power of money '' from the sycophantic tailor , Mr. Trabb , whose brutality to his boy helper exactly matches the financial resource of each new customer , and whose fawning hands touch `` the outside of each elbow '' and `` rub '' Pip out of the shop .
The respectability which money confers implies a different etiquette , and , upon taking up the life of a London gentleman , Pip must learn from Herbert Pocket that `` the spoon is not generally used over-hand , but under '' .
The following items may be specified in actual or symbolic form in the operands of those instructions which refer to the particular items : channel , unit , combined channel and unit , combined arm and file , unit record synchronizers , inquiry synchronizers , and alteration switches .
The declarative operation EQU is used to equate symbolic names to item numbers ( see page 85 ) .
Continuation cards
Certain Autocoder statements make provision for more parameters than may be contained in the operand ( columns 21 - 75 ) of a single line on the Autocoder coding sheet .
When this is the case , the appropriate section of this manual will indicate that `` Continuation Cards '' may be used .
Thus , when specifically permitted , the operand of a given line on the Autocoder coding sheet may be continued in the operand of from one to four additional lines which immediately follow .
The label and operation columns must be blank and the continuation of the operand must begin in column 21 ; ;
i.e. , it must be left-justified in the operand column of the coding sheet .
The operand need not extend across the entire operand column of either the header card or continuation cards but may end with the comma following any parameter .
Remarks may appear to the right of the last parameter on each card provided they are separated from the operand by at least two blank spaces .
Illustrations of the use of continuation cards are included throughout the examples illustrating the various statements .
If a continuation card follows a statement that does not permit continuation cards , the compiler will generate a NOP and issue an error message .
Additional restrictions regarding the use of continuation cards with macro-instructions appear on page 106 .
Reservation of index words and electronic switches
The assignment of actual addresses to symbolic index word and electronic switch names occurs in Phase 3 , of the Autocoder processor .
The initial availability of index words and electronic switches is determined by a table which is included in the Compiler Systems Tape .
This table originally indicates that index words 1 through 96 and electronic switches 1 through 30 are available for assignment to symbolic references ; ;
index words 97 through 99 are not available .
The initial setting of this table may be altered , however , as described in the 7070/7074 Data Processing System Bulletin `` IBM 7070/7074 Compiler System : Operating Procedure '' , form Aj .
During the first pass of Phase 3 , , references to the actual addresses of index words and electronic switches are collected and the availability table is updated .
At the end of this pass , the table indicates which index words and electronic switches are not available for assignment to symbolic references .
Both index words and electronic switches may have been made unavailable before the start of assignment in one of the following ways .
1 .
The initial setting of the availability table indicated that the index word or electronic switch was not available for assignment .
2 .
The one- or two-digit number of the index word or electronic switch was used in the operand of a symbolic machine instruction to specify indexing or as a parameter which is always an index word or electronic switch , e.g. , 3 .
The one- or two-digit number of the index word or electronic switch was used in the operand of an EQU statement , e.g. ,
When the index words or electronic switches are reserved because of actual usage in the statements described above , the position or order of the statements within the program is not important ; ;
any such reference will make the index word or electronic switch unavailable at the end of this pass .
During the assignment pass of Phase 3 , , index words and electronic switches are reserved as they are encountered during assignment .
Index words and electronic switches may be reserved in the following ways .
The first two methods apply to both index words and electronic switches ; ;
the third applies only to index words .
1 .
During the assignment pass , each instruction is examined for reference to the symbolic name of an index word or electronic switch .
When such a reference is found , an actual address is assigned and the availability table is changed so that the assigned index word or switch is no longer available for later assignment .
2 .
If the one- or two-digit address of an index word or electronic switch is used or is included in the operand of an XRESERVE or SRESERVE statement ( see page 99 ) , the corresponding index word or electronic switch is reserved .
3 .
If a statement has been assigned an address in the index word area
by means of an actual label or
by means of an origin statement which refers to an actual address , the corresponding index word will be reserved .
These entries should normally appear at the beginning of the program or immediately following each LITORIGIN statement .
Otherwise , symbolic names may have previously been assigned to these same index words .
( This method does not apply to electronic switches .
)
The preceding methods allow efficient use of index words and electronic switches during a sectionalized or multi-phase program , particularly when used in conjunction with the LITORIGIN statement .
Extreme caution should be used , however , to avoid the conflicting usage of an index word or electronic switch which may result from the assignment of more than one name or function to the same address .
If the symbolic name or actual address of an index word or electronic switch appears or is included in the operand of an XRELEASE or SRELEASE statement ( see page 101 ) , the specified index word or electronic switch will again be made available , regardless of the method by which it was reserved .
It will not , however , be used for symbolic assignment until all other index words or electronic switches have been assigned for the first time .
If , at any time during the assignment pass , the compiler finds that there are no more index words available for assignment , the warning message `` No More Index Words Available '' will be placed in the object program listing , the table will be altered to show that index words 1 through 96 are available , and the assignment will continue as before .
If the compiler finds that there are no more electronic switches available for assignment , the warning message `` No More Electronic Switches Available '' will be placed in the object program listing , the table will be altered to show that electronic switches 1 through 30 are available , and assignment will continue as before .
The resultant conflicting usage of index words or electronic switches may be avoided by reducing the number of symbolic names used , e.g. , through the proper use of the EQU , XRELEASE , or SRELEASE statements .
As noted in Appendix C , index words 97 through 99 are never available for assignment to symbolic names by the compiler ; ;
also , index words 93 through 96 may have been made unavailable for assignment .
Declarative statements
Autocoder declarative statements provide the processor with the necessary information to complete the imperative operations properly .
Declarative statements are never executed in the object program and should be separated from the program instruction area , placed preferably at its beginning or end .
Otherwise , special care must be taken to branch around them so that the program will not attempt to execute something in a data area as an instruction .
If the compiler does encounter such statements , a warning message will be issued .
7070/7074 Autocoder includes the following declarative statements : DA ( Define Area ) , DC ( Define Constant ) , DRDW ( Define Record Definition Word ) , DSW ( Define Switch ) , DLINE ( Define Line ) , EQU ( Equate ) , CODE,DTF ( Define Tape File ) , DIOCS ( Define Input/Output Control System ) , and DUF ( Descriptive Entry For Unit Records ) .
DA , DC , DTF , and DLINE require more than one entry .
The DA statement is used to name and define the positions and length of fields within an area .
The DC statement is used to name and enter constants into the object program .
Since the 7070 and 7074 make use of record definition words ( RDWS ) to read , write , move , and otherwise examine blocks of storage , the DA and DC statements provide the option of generating RDWS automatically .
When so instructed , Autocoder will generate one or more RDWS and assign them successive locations immediately preceding the area with which they are to be associated .
An RDW will be of the form Af , where xxxx is the starting location of the area and yyyy is its ending location .
These addresses are calculated automatically by the processor .
In some cases , it may be more advantageous to assign locations to RDWS associated with DA and DC areas in some other part of storage , i.e. , not immediately preceding the DA or DC areas .
The DRDW statement may be used for this purpose .
The DRDW statement may also be used to generate an RDW defining any area specified by the programmer .
As many as ten digital switches may be named and provided by the DSW statement for consideration by the SETSW and logic macro-instructions .
Each switch occupies one digit position in a word , can be set on or off , and is considered as logically equivalent to an electronic switch .
It cannot , however , be referred to by electronic switch commands , e.g. , ESN , BSN , etc. .
An individual switch or the entire set of switches in a word may be tested or altered as desired .
Through use of the DLINE statement , a means is provided for specifying both the editing of fields to be inserted in a print line area and the layout of the area itself .
The area may include constant information supplied by the programmer .
The area may also be provided with additional data during the running of the object program by means of EDMOV or move macro-instructions .
The declarative statement EQU permits the programmer to equate symbolic names to actual index words , electronic switches , arm and file numbers , tape channel and unit numbers , alteration switches , etc. , and to equate a symbol to another symbol or to an actual address .
The DIOCS , DTF , and DUF statements are used when required by the Input/Output Control System .
DIOCS is used to select the major methods of processing to be used , and to name the index words used by Aj .
Each tape file must be described by Tape File Specifications , produced by Aj .
In addition to information related to the file and its records , the File Specifications contain subroutine locations and the location of tape label information .
A DUF entry must be supplied for every unit record file describing the type of file and the unit record equipment to be used .
The DUF also supplies the locations of subroutines written by the user that are unique to the file .
A full description of the DIOCS , DTF , and DUF statements is contained in the 7070 Data Processing System Bulletin `` IBM 7070 Input/Output Control System '' , form Aj .
Brief descriptions of these three declarative statements and detailed descriptions of the formats and functions of each of the other 7070/7074 Autocoder declarative statements follow below .
diocs -- define input/output control system
When the Input/Output Control System is to be used in a program , a DIOCS statement must be used to select the major methods of processing to be used .
This statement also allows the naming of the index words used by Aj .
Source program format
The basic format of the DIOCS statement is as follows : anylabel is any symbolic label ; ;
it may be omitted .
The entry DIOCS must be written exactly as shown .
The first item in the operand , IOCSIXF , is used to specify the first IOCS index word for programs using tape files .
This item may be a symbolic name or an actual one-digit or two-digit index word address in the range 3 - 94 .
If the first item in the operand is omitted , the symbolic name IOCSIXF will be assigned .
When an actual index word or a symbolic address is specified , Autocoder will equate the name IOCSIXF to it .
The second item in the operand , IOCSIXG , is used to specify the second IOCS index word for programs using tape files .
This item may be a symbolic name or an actual one-digit or two-digit index word address in the range 3 - 94 .
If the second item in the operand is omitted , the symbolic name IOCSIXG will be assigned .
When an actual index word or a symbolic address is specified , Autocoder will equate IOCSIXG to it .
In the Midwest , oxidation ponds are used extensively for the treatment of domestic sewage from suburban areas .
The high cost of land and a few operational problems resulting from excessive loadings have created the need for a wastewater treatment system with the operational characteristics of the oxidation pond but with the ability to treat more organic matter per unit volume .
Research at Fayette , Missouri on oxidation ponds has shown that the BOD in the treated effluent varied from 30 to 53 mg/l with loadings from 8 to 120 lb .
Since experience indicates that effluents from oxidation ponds do not create major problems at these BOD concentrations , the goal for the effluent quality of the accelerated treatment system was the same as from conventional oxidation ponds .
Recent studies by Weston and Stack had indicated that a turbine aerator could be added to an oxidation pond to increase the rate of oxygen transfer .
Their study showed that it was possible to transfer 3 to 4 lb of oxygen / hr. / hp.
.
O'Connor and Eckenfelder discussed the use of aerated lagoons for treating organic wastes .
They indicated that a 4-day retention , aerated lagoon would give 60 to 76 per cent BOD reduction .
Later , Eckenfelder increased the efficiency of treatment to between 75 and 85 per cent in the summer months .
It appeared from the limited information available that the aerated lagoon might offer a satisfactory means of increasing the capacity of existing oxidation ponds as well as providing the same degree of treatment in a smaller volume .
Red Bridge Subdivision
With the development of the Red Bridge Subdivision south of Kansas City , Missouri , the developer was faced with the problem of providing adequate sewage disposal .
The sewage system from Kansas City was not expected to serve the Red Bridge area for several years .
This necessitated the construction of temporary sewage treatment facilities with an expected life from 5 to 15 Aj .
For the initial development an oxidation pond was constructed as shown in Figure 1 .
The oxidation pond has a surface area of 4.77 acres and a depth of 4 Aj .
The pond is currently serving 1,230 persons or 260 persons per acre .
In the summer of 1960 the oxidation pond became completely septic and emitted obnoxious odors .
It was possible to maintain aerobic conditions in the pond by regular additions of sodium nitrate until the temperature decreased and the algae population changed from blue-green to green algae .
The anaerobic conditions in the existing oxidation pond necessitated examination of other methods for supplying additional oxygen than by sodium nitrate .
At the same time further expansion in the Red Bridge Subdivision required the construction of additional sewage treatment facilities .
The large land areas required for oxidation ponds made this type of treatment financially unattractive to the developer .
It was proposed that aerated lagoons be used to eliminate the problem at the existing oxidation ponds and to provide the necessary treatment for the additional development .
Pilot lagoon
The lack of adequate data on the aerated lagoon system prompted the developer to construct an aerated lagoon pilot plant to determine its feasibility for treating domestic sewage .
The pilot plant was a circular lagoon 81 ft in diam at the surface and 65 ft in diam at the bottom , 4 ft below the surface , with a volume of 121,000 Aj .
The side slopes were coated with fiberglas matting coated with asphalt to prevent erosion .
The pilot lagoon was located as shown in Figure 1 to serve the area just south of the existing housing area .
The major contributor was a shopping center with houses being added to the system as the subdivision developed .
The pilot lagoon was designed to handle the wastes from 314 persons with a 4-day aeration period .
Initially , the wastewater would be entirely from the shopping center with the domestic sewage from the houses increasing over an 18-month period .
This operation would permit evaluation of the pilot plant , with a slowly increasing load , over a reasonable period of time .
The pilot plant was equipped with a 3-hp. turbine aerator ( Figure 2 ) .
The aerator had a variable-speed drive to permit operation through a range of speeds .
The sewage flow into the treatment plant was metered and continuously recorded on 24-hr. charts .
The raw sewage was introduced directly under the turbine aerator to insure maximum mixing of the raw sewage with the aeration tank contents .
The effluent was collected through two pipes and discharged to the Blue River through a surface drainage ditch .
Analyses
Composite samples were collected at weekly intervals .
The long retention period and the complete mixing concept prevented rapid changes in either the mixed liquor or in the effluent .
Weekly samples would make any changes more readily discernible than daily samples .
The composite samples were normally collected over a 6-hr. period , but an occasional 24-hr. composite was made .
Examination of the operations of the shopping center permitted correlation of the 6-hr. composite samples with 24-hr. operations .
The data indicated that the organic load during the 6-hr. composites was essentially 50 per cent of the 24-hr. organic load .
Grab samples were collected from the existing oxidation pond to determine its operating conditions .
Efforts were made to take the grab samples at random periods so that the mass of data could be treated as a 6-hr. composite sample .
A single 24-hr. composite sample indicated that the sewage flow pattern and characteristics were typical .
Pilot plant operations
The BOD of the influent to the pilot plant varied between 110 and 710 mg/l with an average of 350 Aj .
This was equivalent to 240 mg/lBOD on a 24-hr. basis .
The BOD of the raw sewage was typical of domestic sewage from a subdivision .
The BOD in the effluent averaged 58 mg/l , a 76-per-cent reduction over the 24-hr. period .
Examination of the data in Table 1 , shows that a few samples contributed to raising the effluent Aj .
The periods of high effluent BOD occurred during cold periods when operational problems with the aerator resulted .
Ice caused the aerator to overload , straining the drive belts .
The slippage of the drive belts caused the aerator to slow down and reduce oxygen transfer as well as the mixing of the raw sewage .
The organic loading on the unit averaged 32 lb of BOD/day or about 2 lb BOD/day/1,000 cu ft aeration capacity .
Needless to say , the organic load was very low on a volumetric basis , but was 270 lb BOD/day/acre on a surface loading basis .
It seems that the aerated lagoon was a very heavily loaded oxidation pond or a lightly loaded activated sludge system .
The flow rate remained relatively constant during the winter months as shown in Table 1 .
With the spring rains the flow rose rapidly due to infiltration in open sewers .
As construction progresses , the volume of storm drainage will be sharply reduced .
The retention period in the aerated lagoon ranged from 9.8 to 2.6 days , averaging 6.4 days .
The large amount of vegetable grindings from the grocery store in the shopping center created a suspended solids problem .
The vegetables were not readily metabolized by the bacteria in the aeration unit and tended to float on the surface .
A skimming device at the effluent weir prevented loss of most of these light solids .
The average volatile suspended solids in the effluent was 75 mg/l while MLSS averaged 170 mg/l volatile suspended solids .
The average sludge age based on displacement of solids was calculated to be 14.5 days .
The oxygen uptake rate in the mixed liquor averaged 0.8 mg/l/hr during the first four months of this study .
Variations in aerator speeds during the latter two months of this study caused increased mixing and increased oxygen demand .
The increase in oxygen uptake rates from 1.2 to 2.6 mg/l/hr which followed an increase in rotor speed was believed to be related to resuspension of solids which had settled at the lower rotor speeds .
It appeared that most of the mixed liquor suspended solids were active microbial solids with the heavier , less active solids settling out .
The suspended solids discharged in the effluent were found to be the major source of the Aj .
Removal of the suspended solids by a membrane filter yielded an average effluent containing only 20 mg/l Aj .
The BOD in the drainage ditch receiving the pilot plant effluent averaged 12 Aj .
This low BOD was due to removal of the excess suspended solids by sedimentation since the only dilution was surface runoff which was very low during this study .
Microscopic examination
Routine microscopic examinations were made of the mixed liquor as indicated by McKinney and Gram for the various types of protozoa .
It was found that the aerated lagoon was an activated sludge system rather than an oxidation pond .
At no time were algae found in the mixed liquor .
The bacteria formed typical activated sludge floc .
The floc particles were all small as the heavier floc settled out .
Initially , the flagellated protozoa predominated , but they soon gave way to the free swimming ciliated protozoa .
As the temperature decreased , the number of free swimming ciliated protozoa decreased .
Very little protozoa activity existed below 40-degrees-F .
When the temperature reached 32-degrees-F all protozoan activity ceased ; ;
but as the temperature rose , the numbers of protozoa increased rapidly .
Only once were stalked ciliates found in the mixed liquor .
The predomination of free swimming ciliated protozoa is indicative of a high bacterial population .
Oxygen transfer
One of the important aspects of this study was to determine the oxygen transfer relationships of the mechanical aerator .
Routine determinations were made for dissolved oxygen in the mixed liquor and for oxygen uptake rates .
The data given in Table 2 , show the routine operation of the aerator .
The dissolved oxygen in the aeration unit was consistently high until January 29 , 1961 .
An extended cold spell caused ice to build up on the aerator which was mounted on a floating platform and caused the entire platform to sink lower in the water .
The added resistance to the rotor damaged the drive belts and reduced the oxygen transfer capacity .
It was approximately one month before the belt problem was noticed and corrected , but at no time was there a deficiency of dissolved oxygen .
A series of eight special tests were conducted at different rotor speeds to determine the oxygen transfer rate .
Five of the tests were conducted with a polyethylene cover to simulate an ice cover .
The rate of oxygen transfer at 1.0-mg. / l. dissolved oxygen concentration and 10-degrees-C for various rotor speeds is given in Table 3 .
The maximum rate of oxygen transfer at 1.0 mg/l dissolved oxygen was calculated as 220 lb/day at a maximum rate of 9.3 Aj .
The actual power requirements indicated 2 lb. oxygen transfer / hr. / hp. .
The polyethylene cover reduced the oxygen transfer rate by 10 per cent , indicating that the maximum oxygen transfer is at the rotor rather than through the surface .
Oxidation pond
During this study septic conditions developed in the oxidation pond in the spring when the ice melted .
Shortly after this study ended septic conditions resulted which required the addition of sodium nitrate .
The location of the oxidation pond in a high-value residential area makes odor nuisances a sensitive problem for the developer .
The organic concentration in the influent raw sewage ranged from 160 to 270 mg/l of BOD with an average of 230 Aj .
The BOD data are given in Table 4 .
A single 24-hr. composite sample had a BOD of 260 mg/l , indicating a typical domestic sewage .
The daily sewage volume to the oxidation pond averaged 147,000 gpd , giving a retention period of 42 days .
The organic loading on the pond was slightly under 60 lb. BOD / day / acre .
The effluent BOD averaged 34 mg/l , a little lower than that of the study at Fayette indicated for a loading of 60 lb. Aj .
The BOD of the effluent ranged from a minimum of 13 to a maximum of 47 mg. / l. .
Microscopic examination of the effluent showed that minimum BOD occurred when the algae began to decrease with cold weather .
When the algae began to build up again , the effluent BOD rose .
During the two weeks when the algae disappeared from the effluent BOD's in the effluent were 18 and 16 Aj .
Thus , the three main categories of antisubmarine warfare operations are defense of shipping , defense of naval forces , and area defense .
The last category overlaps the others in amphibious operations and near terminals and bases .
To effect these operations , five elements exist ( 1 ) surface , ( 2 ) air , ( 3 ) mines , ( 4 ) submarine , and ( 5 ) fixed installations .
Surface forces have been used to provide defense zones around naval and merchant ship formations , air to furnish area surveillance , and mines for protection of limited areas .
Submarines and shore installations are new elements .
The submarine now has a definite place in submarine defense particularly in denying enemy access to ocean areas .
Fixed installations offer possibilities for area detection .
Mine warfare is being reoriented against submarine targets .
A sixth element , not always considered , is intelligence .
It includes operational intelligence of the enemy and knowledge of the environment .
Operational intelligence presumably will be available from our national intelligence agencies ; ;
intelligence on the environment will come from the recently augmented program in oceanography .
The major postwar development is the certainty that these elements should not be considered singly but in combination and as being mutually supporting .
Necessity for an over-all concept
Thinking on submarine defense has not always been clear-cut .
Proponents of single elements tend to ensure predominance of that element without determining if it is justified , and the element with the most enthusiastic and vociferous proponents has assumed the greatest importance .
Consequently , air , surface , and submarine elements overshadow the mine , fixed installations , and intelligence .
These have sought more and more of what they have .
Each seems to strive for elimination of the necessity for the others .
This , despite postwar experience demonstrating that all elements are necessarily mutually supporting .
Thus , the most productive areas are not necessarily the most stressed .
This is stated to emphasize the necessity for an over-all concept of submarine defense , one which would provide positions of relative importance to ASW elements based on projected potentialities .
Then the enthusiasm and energy of all elements can be channeled to produce cumulative progress toward a common objective .
An over-all concept would have other advantages .
It would allow presentation to the public of a unified approach .
Now the problem is presented piecemeal and sometimes contradictorily .
While one element is announcing progress , another is delineating its problems .
The result can only be confusion in the public mind .
A unified concept can serve as a guide to budgeting and , if public support is gained , will command Congressional support .
Industry's main criticism of the Navy's antisubmarine effort is that it cannot determine where any one company or industry can apply its skills and know-how .
Lacking guidance , industry picks its own areas .
The result , coupled with the salesmanship for which American industry is famous , is considerable expenditure of funds and efforts in marginal areas .
An over-all concept will guide industry where available talents and facilities will yield greatest dividends .
Therefore , a broad concept of over-all submarine defense is needed for co-ordination of the Navy's efforts , for a logical presentation to the public , for industry's guidance , and as a basis for a program to the Congress .
Principles involved in an over-all concept
That which follows will be a discussion of principles and possible content for an over-all concept of antisubmarine warfare .
Russia possesses the preponderance of submarines in the world , divided between her various fleets .
Some are also in Albania and others are on loan to Egypt .
Other countries which may willingly or unwillingly become Communist can furnish bases .
Communist target areas can be assumed , but there is no certainty that such assumptions coincide with Soviet intentions .
Attack can come from almost any direction against many locations .
Logically , then , the first principle of the plan must be that it is not rigidly oriented toward any geographical area .
It is often stated that the submarine can be destroyed while building , at bases , in transit , and on station .
Destruction of the enemy's building and base complex , however , requires attacks on enemy territory , which is possible only in event of all-out hostilities .
In transit or on station , it may not be possible to attack the submarines until commission of an overt act .
The Communists are adept at utilizing hostilities short of general war and will do so whenever it is to their advantage .
Therefore the second principle of the plan must be that , while providing for all-out hostilities , its effectiveness is not dependent on general war .
Antisubmarine warfare does not involve clashes between large opposing forces , with the decision a result of a single battle .
It is a war of attrition , of single actions , of an exchange of losses .
This exchange must result in our ending up with some effective units .
Initially , having fewer units of some elements -- especially submarines -- than the opponent , our capabilities need to be sufficiently greater than theirs , so that the exchange will be in our favor .
Therefore , the third principle of the plan must be that it does not depend for effectiveness on engagement by the same types , unless at an assured favorable exchange rate .
The submarine has increased its effectiveness by several orders of magnitude since World War 2 .
Its speed has increased , it operates at increasingly greater depths , its submerged endurance is becoming unlimited , and it will become even more silent .
The next developments will probably be in weaponry .
The missile can gradually be expected to replace the torpedo .
As detection ranges increase , weapons will be developed to attack other submarines and surface craft at these ranges .
Therefore , the fourth principle of the plan must be that it provide for continuously increasing capabilities in the opponent .
No element can accomplish the total objective of submarine defense .
Some elements support the others , but all have limitations .
Some limitations of one element can be compensated for by a capability of another .
Elements used in combination will increase the over-all capability more than the sum of the capabilities of the individual elements .
Therefore , the plan's fifth principle must be that it capitalize on the capabilities of all elements in combination .
Conceivably the submarine defense problem can be solved by sufficient forces .
Numbers would be astronomical and current fiscal policies make this an impractical solution .
Shipbuilding , aircraft procurement , and weapon programs indicate that there will not be enough of anything .
Therefore , any measures taken in peacetime which will decrease force requirements in war will contribute greatly to success when hostilities occur .
Therefore , the sixth principle of the plan must be that it concentrate on current measures which will reduce future force requirements .
The world is constantly changing ; ;
what was new yesterday is obsolescent today .
The seventh principle of the plan is self-evident ; ;
it must be flexible enough to allow for technological breakthroughs , scientific progress , and changes in world conditions .
Supporting elements in asw operations
To this point the need for an over-all plan for submarine defense has been demonstrated , the mission has been stated , broad principles delineating its content laid down , and the supporting elements listed .
Before considering these elements in more detail , an additional requirement should be stated .
Large area coverage will accomplish all other tasks .
Therefore , because reduction in tasks results in reduction of forces required , the plan should provide for expanding area coverage .
But it must be remembered that the plan should not be oriented geographically .
Consequently , the system giving area coverage ( if such coverage is less than world wide ) must be flexible and hence at least partially mobile .
Since effective area coverage appears fairly remote , the requirement can be borne in mind while considering the elements : air , surface , sub-surface , fixed installations , mines , and intelligence .
These are arranged approximately in the order of the vociferousness of their proponents but will be discussed in the reverse order in the hope that the true order of importance will result .
Intelligence , as used herein , will include information on possible opponents and on the environment which can affect operations .
These can be referred to as operational intelligence and environmental intelligence .
In submarine defense these must have maximum stress .
Good operational intelligence can ensure sound planning , greatly reduce force requirements , and increase tactical effectiveness .
Environmental intelligence is just as important .
The ocean presently co-operates with the target .
Full knowledge of the science of oceanography can bring the environment to our side , resulting in an increase in effectiveness of equipment and tactics , a decrease in enemy capabilities , and the development of methods of capitalizing on the environment .
Therefore , improved intelligence will result in reduced force requirements and , as it supports all other elements , rates a top priority .
Gathering intelligence is important , but of equal importance is its translation into usable form .
A program is needed to translate the results of oceanographic research into tactical and operating instructions .
Approaching this problem on a statistical basis is invalid , because the opponent has the same sources available and will be encountered not under average conditions , but under the conditions most advantageous to him .
Therefore , the on-the-scene commander must have detailed operating instructions based on measurement of conditions , in the area , at the time of encounter .
All capabilities must be used to maximum advantage then .
Temperature , wind , oxygen content , depth , bottom character , and animal life are the chief environmental variables .
There may be others .
Variations in sound velocity should be measured rather than temperature , because more of the variables would be encompassed .
These variations must eventually be measured horizontally as well as vertically .
Progress in predicting water conditions is encouraging , but little guidance is available to the man at sea on the use of such information .
A concurrent effort is needed to make oceanographic data useful on the spot .
Mine warfare has in the past been directed against surface targets .
By its nature it has always been of great psychological advantage and small efforts have required considerably greater counter-efforts .
Mines are being increasingly oriented against submarine targets .
They are still considered to be for use in restricted waters , however , and targets must come within a few yards of them .
Mines need to be recognized as a major element in anti-submarine warfare employment , extended to deep water , and have their effective area per unit increased .
Mines can be used to deny access to great areas ; ;
they are difficult to counter , cost little to maintain until required , and can be put into place quickly .
A most attractive feature is that detection and attack are combined in a single package .
Effective employment will reduce force requirements .
For example , effective mine barriers from Florida to Cuba and across the Yucatan Channel from Cuba to Mexico would remove all requirements for harbor defense , inshore patrol , convoy escort , shipping control , and mine defense for the entire Gulf of Mexico .
More extended systems , covering all passage into the Caribbean , would free the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico from the previously listed requirements .
Systems covering the Gulf of St. Lawrence and possibly the entire coasts of the United States are not impossible .
Such mine defense systems could permit concentration of mobile forces in the open oceans with consequent increase in the probability of success .
The advantages inherent in mine warfare justify as great an importance for this element as is accorded any of the other elements .
Fixed installations are increasingly advocated as the problem of area defense emerges .
The proponents are scientific and technical men who exercise considerable influence on their military counterparts .
Systems which detect submarines over wide areas are attractive , although they can be only `` burglar alarms '' .
Mobile forces are required to localize and attack detected targets , since the systems are not capable of pinpointing a target .
Such systems are expensive and are oriented geographically .
In an over-all ASW concept , dependence on and effort expended for such systems should be limited to those with proven capabilities .
No general installation should be made until a model installation has been proved and its maximum capability determined .
In addition , proposals for fixed installations should be carefully weighed against a counterpart mobile system .
Fixed installations will always lack the flexibility that should be inherent in naval systems .
The submarine has become increasingly attractive as an antisubmarine weapon system .
It operates in its target's environment , and any advantage gained therefrom by the target is shared by the attacker .
But the submarine is a weapon of ambush and therefore always in danger of being ambushed .
Two metabolites ( 1 , and 2 ) ) of p-aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) which act as cofactors for the hydroxylation of aniline by acid-fast bacteria are biosynthesized from Aj .
The 7 carbons of PABA are incorporated directly into metabolite 2 ( ( as shown with both ring-labeled and carboxy-labeled Af ) .
Thirty-five of the 36 carbon atoms arise from Aj .
All 28 carbons of metabolite 1 ( ( a product of mild acid hydrolysis of 2 ) arise from Aj .
Metabolite 1 , isolated from the medium , however , showed a lower specific activity , which indicates endogenous synthesis of this metabolite .
Vigorous acid hydrolysis of metabolite 1 , destroyed the biological activity of the compound and liberated two aryl amines .
Fragment A has been obtained in crystalline form as a dioxalate salt and free base .
Preliminary evidence tentatively indicates that the molecule ( metabolite 1 ) ) is cleaved at a secondary amide bond .
( N. H. Sloane ; ;
chemical studies are being pursued with the cooperation of K.G. Untch .
) studies on esterases
-- Research on esterases in mammalian sera was continued .
One of the most interesting findings was the extreme sensitivity of plasma arylesterases to rare earth ions .
The inhibition of the enzyme by very low concentrations of lanthanum ion is probably the strongest known biological effect of rare earth salts .
Various metal ions have been found to protect plasma arylesterase against inactivation by urea and guanidine .
The effects can be related to the structure of this enzyme .
The non-identity of serum and red blood cell arylesterase was also established .
Furthermore , the hydrolysis of paraoxon was studied in mammalian sera , and it was found that it is hydrolyzed by albumin ( or a factor attached to it ) in addition to arylesterase .
Selective inhibitors can distinguish the two activities .
Investigations on the acceleration of human plasma cholinesterase were carried further .
( E. G. Erdos , L. E. Boggs , C. D. Mackey ) biophysical studies on modified fibrous proteins
-- Electron-microscopical and physical-chemical methods were used to demonstrate the renaturation of heat-denatured collagen and ribonucleic acid .
( R. V. Rice )
A method was devised for extracting and purifying soluble earthworm collagen ( EWC ) .
It was observed that EWC macromolecules are the same diameter ( 15 a. ) but much longer ( up to several microns ) than vertebrate tropocollagen .
This unusual collagen also was shown to undergo a reversible thermal phase transformation .
( R. V. Rice , M. D. Maser ) studies on peptides and peptidases
-- This investigation involved several aspects .
Substance Z , an active urinary peptide , was purified by extraction in organic solvents and repeated column chromatography ; ;
high-voltage electrophoresis and paper chromatography were used in preliminary structural studies ; ;
pharmacological effects in vitro on isolated surviving organs and in vivo on blood pressure were assayed ; ;
special equipment required for registering respiration and for recording the contraction of smooth muscles under various conditions was developed by the Instruments Section ( Victor Jackman , W. C. Barnes , J. F. Reiss ) ; ;
and enzymes which terminate the action of peptides such as bradykinin and perhaps Substance Z were studied .
Experiments are in progress to develop ultraviolet spectrophotometric techniques for assaying these enzymes and for studying their sensitivity to metal ions .
( E. G. Erdos , C. D. Mackey , A. G. Renfrew , W. B. Severs , E. M. Sloane ) seed proteins
-- In a physiochemical study of seed proteins , the globulins of the Brazil nut have been investigated .
In addition to the known principal globulin , excelsin , three other ultracentrifugally distinct components have been observed .
A water-soluble protein of quite low molecular weight ( ca. 10,000 ) has also been found in this system and partly characterized .
( E. F. Casassa , H. J. Notarius )
continuum mechanics and viscoelasticity
theory of non-newtonian fluids
-- On the basis of a differentiability assumption in function space , it is possible to prove that , for materials having the property that the stress is given by a functional of the history of the deformation gradients , the classical theory of infinitesimal viscoelasticity is valid when the deformation has been infinitesimal for all times in the past .
By strengthening the differentiability assumption , it has been possible to derive second and higher order theories of viscoelasticity .
In the second-order theory , one of the normal stress differences can be calculated from the first-order stress relaxation function .
( B. D. Coleman with Walter Noll , Department of Mathematics , Carnegie Institute of Technology ) viscoelastic measurements
-- An extensive series of measurements was made on a high-density polyethylene in a torsion pendulum instrument using forced sinusoidal oscillation , free vibration , and creep measurements over the temperature range of Af to 80-degrees-C .
As many as seven decades of the time scale were thus covered isothermally .
The simple time-temperature equivalence valid for many amorphous systems did not hold here .
It was possible , however , to decompose the compliance into a sum of a frequency-independent component and two viscoelastic mechanisms , each compatible with the Boltzmann superposition principle and with a consistent set of time-temperature equivalence factors .
( Hershel Markovitz , D.J. Plazek , Haruo Nakayasu )
geochemistry
trace elements in tektites , meteorites , and related materials
-- The results of microanalysis of tektites ( natural glasses of unknown origin ) for gallium and germanium have shown that these glasses are probably produced from terrestrial ( or less likely from lunar ) matter by impact of a celestial body .
The gallium / germanium ratio is higher than that for ordinary igneous , metamorphic , or sedimentary matter as a result of selective volatilization of the components of the tektite .
Gallium oxide is less volatile than silica ( the main constituent of tektites ) and germanium oxide is more volatile .
Australites ( tektites from Australia ) give the appearance of a second melting .
In conformity with this conclusion a higher trace gallium content was found in the portion ( flange ) that has undergone a second melting .
The silicate fractions of stony meteorites show gallium / germanium ratios similar to those of tektites because they too have undergone melting at some point in their histories .
Libyan Desert silica-glass , another natural glass , is composed of nearly pure silica and has the same trace germanium content as sands in the area .
The gallium content , however , has been enhanced five-fold .
This glass is probably formed from Libyan Desert sands by comet or stony-meteorite impact .
Nickel-iron meteorites with sufficient kinetic energy to produce large terrestrial explosion craters may nevertheless melt only small quantities of material .
Most of the impact energy is spent in crushing and fragmentation .
When rapid quenching follows melting , impact glasses may result .
These always contain metallic inclusions .
Impact glasses not containing elemental nickel-iron may have been produced by stony meteorites or comets .
No meteorites have ever been recovered from paleoexplosion craters , and recent craters containing impact glass have all been produced by metallic meteorites with the exception of Aouelloul crater , Adrar , Western Sahara Desert .
This crater contains impact glass with no metallic inclusions and no meteoritic material has been recovered .
( A. J. Cohen , John Anania )
inorganic chemistry
Preparation of a coordination compound is often accomplished by the simple method of reacting a metal salt with a ligand in a suitable solvent such as an alcohol .
By applying this general principle , a great number of complex compounds of osmium , ruthenium , iridium , and rhenium , with triphenylphosphine , triphenylarsine , and triphenylstibine have been obtained in this laboratory during the past few years .
( Lauri Vaska , E. M. Sloane , J. W. DiLuzio ) In the absence of direct evidence to the contrary , decomposition of solvent alcohol and coordination of its fragments to the metal were not considered , following the above heretofore-accepted assumption in preparative coordination chemistry .
Recent work with radiocarbon and deuterated alcohols as solvents , however , has given evidence that metal-hydrido and carbonyl complexes may be readily formed by reaction with alcohol in some of these systems .
Some of the previously reported compounds have thus been reformulated and a series of new hydrido and carbonyl compounds discovered , the more representative examples being Af , Af , Af , Af and Af ( Af ) .
The coordination complexes formed by transition metals with primary and secondary phosphines and arsines are being investigated ( R. G. Hayter ) .
Particular interest is directed towards the condensation of these ligands with metal halides to form substituted phosphide or arside complexes .
During the past year , these ligands have yielded some unusual five-coordinate complexes of nickel ( 2 ) and some interesting binuclear phosphorus-bridged complexes of palladium ( 2 ) ( see figure ) , as well as new compounds of the well-known type Af .
The structures , properties , and reactions of these compounds are being studied .
In another study chromium-substituted aluminum oxyhydroxides and related species , prepared homogeneously by high-temperature hydrolysis , are being characterized and investigated spectrally in the ultraviolet region with a view to identification and semiquantitative estimation of the phases formed under varying preparative conditions .
( J. A. Laswick , N. L. Heatwole )
structure and properties of macromolecules
elasticity of macromolecular networks
-- The theory of elasticity of Gaussian networks has been developed on a more general basis and the equations of state relating variables of pressure , volume , temperature , stress and strain have been precisely formulated .
Simple elongation has been treated in detail .
The various stress-temperature coefficients for constancy of volume and strain , constancy of pressure and strain , and constancy of pressure and length have been interrelated .
The dilation accompanying elongation and the simultaneously developed anisotropy of compressibility have been related to the elongation .
In continuation of these theoretical studies , a more precise elucidation of the effects of imperfections in network structure is sought .
( P. J. Flory , C. A. J. Hoeve ) chain conformations of polymeric chains
-- Recent theoretical work to calculate the dimensions of polymeric chains by Volkenstein and Lifson has been extended to include more general types of chains .
The mean-square end-to-end distance of the polyisobutylene chain has been calculated in reasonable agreement with values deduced from viscosity data .
These studies are being extended to different polymers to increase our knowledge about the hindrances to rotation around chain bonds .
( C. A. J. Hoeve , A. A. Blumberg ) crystallization in polymers and copolymers
-- The crystallization of copolymers comprising Af units interspersed with a minor percentage of Af is limited by the inability of the crystal lattice characteristic of the former to accommodate the bulky side group of the latter .
Only uninterrupted sequences of the former are eligible for formation of crystallites .
Limitations on the lengths of these sequences diminish the stability of the comparatively short crystallites which can be formed , and this is reflected in a broadening of the melting range .
( Robert Chiang , J. B. Jackson , P. J. Flory ) Carefully executed melting studies on this system ( M. J. Richardson ) permit quantitative estimation of the instability engendered by reduced crystallite length .
The complex morphology of polycrystalline homopolymers is necessarily dependent on the same factor .
Hence , the present studies offer a possible basis for interpretations in the latter field .
Contraction of muscle
-- Glycerinated muscle , in the presence of the physiological agent ( ATP ) responsible for delivering energy to the mechanochemically active proteins of muscle , has been shown to undergo a contraction which is highly sensitive both to temperature and to solvent composition in mixtures of alcohols and water .
Experiments carried out over long periods of time in order to allow establishment of a steady state have shown that the onset of contraction and its completion are confined to an interval of several degrees Centigrade and to a concentration range of only several per cent .
The contraction therefore partakes of the character of a phase transition .
While ATP appears to be necessary for the occurrence of contraction , its presence and enzymatic hydrolysis of it by the muscle protein myosin are not the only criteria for contraction .
( C. A. J. Hoeve , P. J. Flory ) anionic Polymerization
-- One of the principal aims of anionic polymerization techniques is the synthesis of polymers of extremely narrow molecular weight distribution .
A simple process for the preparation of nearly monodisperse polystyrene of predictable molecular weight has been developed .
The preparation of such products is not new , but the systems heretofore employed in polymerizations have commanded considerable experimental skill and starting materials of a high purity .
In the new process impurities present in the solvent ( benzene ) , the monomer , and in the reaction system which would cause deactivation of propagation centers , are rendered inactive prior to polymerization by gradual addition of initiator , a mixture of butyl-lithium and telomeric styryl-lithium , at a temperature low enough to suppress chain growth .
Upon completion of the purging step , additional initiator appropriate for the molecular weight of the sample desired is added , and the system is then warmed to the polymerization temperature , at which the reaction is allowed to go to completion .
The predictability of the molecular weights was found to be within 10% for the polymers prepared , with Af ratios less than 1.1 .
Contrary to observations with ethers , no apparent change of the reactivity of the chain ends takes place over considerable periods of time in benzene as solvent .
Organization :
In this publication measurements of interfacial angles of crystals are used to classify and identify chemical substances .
T. V. Barker , who developed the classification-angle system , was about to begin the systematic compilation of the index when he died in 1931 .
The compilation work was undertaken by a number of interested crystallographers in the Department of Mineralogy of the University Museum at Oxford .
Since 1948 the working headquarters has been the Department of Geology and Mineralogy .
Numerous cooperating individuals in Great Britain , Holland , the United States , and Belgium have contributed editorially or by making calculations .
Great interest and practical help have been given by the Barker Index Committee .
Financial and material help have come from academic , governmental , and industrial organizations in England and Holland .
Editors for Volumes 1 , and 2 , were M. W. Porter and the late R. C. Spiller , both of Oxford University .
A third volume remains to be published .
Substances :
Volume 1 , deals with 2991 compounds belonging to the tetragonal , hexagonal and trigonal , and orthorhombic systems ; ;
and Volume 2 , , with about 3500 monoclinic substances .
Volume 3 , , in preparation , will treat the anorthic compounds described in Groth's Chemische Krystallographie .
Properties :
The Barker system is based on the use of the smallest number of interfacial angles necessary for indexing purposes .
Other morphological , physical , and optical property values are also given .
Sources of data :
The index is essentially a new treatment of previously compiled morphological data .
Most of the data used are from Groth's Chemische Krystallographie .
Criticality :
Every calculation has been made independently by two workers and checked by one of the editors .
Use of nomenclature , symbols , units , physical constants :
Accepted crystallographic symbolism has been used ; ;
other symbols related to the index necessarily have been introduced .
Currency :
This publication covers the old literature ( Groth ) ; ;
there is no mechanism for keeping the volumes up to date .
Format :
The publication form is that of clothbound books .
The data are presented in lists and tables .
Part 1 in both volumes is labeled `` Introduction And Tables '' .
The tables include those for the classification angles , refractive indices , and melting points of the various types of crystals .
Part 2 of Volume 1 , and Parts 2 and 3 of Volume 2 , contain the crystal descriptions .
These are grouped into sections according to the crystal system , and within each section compounds are arranged in the same order as in Groth's Chemische Krystallographie .
An alphabetical list of chemical and mineralogical names with reference numbers enables one to find a particular crystal description .
References to the data sources are given in the crystal descriptions .
Publication and distribution :
The Barker index is published for the Barker Index Committee by W. Heffer & Sons , Ltd. , 4 Petty Cury , Cambridge , England .
Volume 1 , containing Parts 1 and 2 was published in 1951 ; ;
Volume 2 , , in three parts , in 1956 .
The two volumes are available from the publisher for $16.80 and $28.00 , respectively .
2-2 .
Crystal data
organization :
The present edition of crystal data was written by J.D.H. Donnay , the Johns Hopkins University , Baltimore , Md. ( Part 2 ) ) and Werner Nowacki , University of Berne , Switzerland ( Part 1 ) ) with the collaboration of Gabrielle Donnay , U. S. Geological Survey , Washington , D. C. .
Many collaborators in the United States and Switzerland helped in collecting and assembling data , in making calculations , and in editing .
Support came from academic and industrial groups in these two countries .
The Geological Society of America gave a grant-in-aid to complete the work and bore the expenses of publication .
Preparation of a second edition is in progress under the sponsorship of the Crystal Data Committee of the American Crystallographic Association .
Coeditors are J.D.H. Donnay , G. E. Cox of Leeds University , and Olga Kennard of the National Council for Medical Research , London .
Financial grants have been received from the National Science Foundation and the ( British ) Institute of Physics for the compilation work and the publication costs .
The continuity of the project is suggested by plans for an eventual third edition .
Substances :
Elements , alloys , inorganic and organic compounds .
( Metal data will not be included in the second edition , since these have been collected independently by W. B. Pearson , National Research Council , Ottawa , and published as A handbook of lattice spacings and structures of metals and alloys by Pergamon Press .
) properties :
Crystallographic data resulting mainly from X-ray and electron diffraction measurements are presented .
Cell dimensions , number of formula units per cell , space group , and specific gravity are given for all substances .
For some substances , auxiliary properties such as the melting point are given .
Sources of data :
Part 1 , of the present edition covers the literature to mid-1948 ; ;
Part 2 , , up to the end of 1951 .
Much of the material comes directly from secondary sources such as Strukturbericht .
Criticality :
The vast number of compounds to be covered , the limited resources to do the job , and the immediate need for this type of compilation precluded a thorough evaluation of all available data in the present edition .
Future editions may be more critical .
Use of nomenclature , symbols , units , physical constants :
Since Parts 1 , and 2 , were prepared independently , the abbreviation schemes and the chemical symbols used differ in the two parts .
The second edition should have greater uniformity .
Currency :
A second edition is in preparation , and there are long range plans for a third .
Format :
Data in the present edition are presented in tables and lists .
Part 1 , deals with the classification of crystalline substances by space groups and is not a numerical data compilation .
The compounds are divided according to composition into seven categories .
Part 2 , contains determinative tables for the identification of crystalline substances .
These are arranged according to crystal system .
There are formula and name indexes covering both parts .
References for Part 1 , are given at the end and for Part 2 , in the tables .
Publication and distribution :
The present edition of crystal data ( Af ) , published in 1954 as Memoir 60 of the Geological Society of America , is now out of print .
The manuscript of the second edition will probably be ready by the end of 1960 .
2-3 .
Crystal Structures
organization :
The author of Crystal Structures is Ralph W.G. Wyckoff , University of Arizona , Tucson , Arizona .
The first section of this publication appeared in 1948 and the last supplement in 1960 .
Though now complete , the publication is included in this directory because of its importance and because of the long-term nature of its preparation .
Substances :
Elements , inorganic and organic compounds ( no alloys ) .
Properties :
The data presented are derived almost entirely from X-ray diffraction measurements and include atomic coordinates , cell dimensions , and atomic and ionic radii .
Sources of data :
Published literature .
Criticality :
The aim was to state the results of all available determinations of atomic positions in crystals .
Presumably the tabulated data are best available values .
The critical comments in the textual sections of this publication are invaluable .
Use of nomenclature , symbols , units , physical constants :
The terminology used conforms to that of Internationale Tabellen Zur Bestimmung Von Kristallstrukturen .
Currency :
During the years of publication , supplement and replacement sheets were issued periodically .
Coverage of the literature extends through 1954 and includes some 1955 references .
It is to be hoped that some way will be found to keep this important work current .
Format :
The publication form is that of loose-leaf sheets ( Af ) contained in binders .
The book is divided into chapters and in each chapter the material is grouped into Text , Tables , Illustrations , and Bibliography .
Each group is paginated separately ; ;
numbers sometimes followed by letters are used so that insertions can be made .
Inorganic structures are found in Chapters 2 - 12 , organic structures in Chapters 13 - 15 .
Within each chapter an effort has been made to group together those crystals with similar structures .
There are three indexes , i.e. , an inorganic formula index , a mineralogical name index , and a name index to organic compounds .
Publication and distribution :
Publisher of Crystal Structures is Interscience Publishers , 250 Fifth Avenue , New York 1 , N. Y. .
The work consists of four sections and 5 supplements .
Price of the complete work including all necessary binders is $148.50 .
2-4 .
Dana's System Of Mineralogy
organization :
Six editions of James Dwight Dana's System appeared between 1837 and 1892 .
In 1915 Edward S. Dana , editor of the sixth edition , asked W. E. Ford of Yale University to prepare a seventh edition of his father's work .
A number of people became involved in the preparation but work was slow until 1937 .
In that year a grant was obtained from the Penrose Fund of the Geological Society of America to finance additional full-time workers .
Money was also advanced by the publishers , John Wiley & Sons , Inc. .
Volume 1 , was completed in 1941 and published in 1944 .
The editors of this volume and Volume 2 , were the late Charles Palache , Clifford Frondel , and the late Harry Berman , all of Harvard University .
Work on Volume 2 , was begun in 1941 , interrupted by the war in 1942 , and resumed in 1945 .
The volume was completed in 1950 and published in 1951 .
A supplementary grant from the Geological Society of America helped finance its publication .
Besides the editors there were many contributors in the United States and Great Britain to Volumes 1 , and 2 .
W. E. Ford , for example , continued to supply data on the occurrence of minerals until his death in 1939 .
Volume 3 , is nearing completion and there are plans to revise Volume 1 .
The project is currently supported by Harvard University .
Substances :
minerals .
Properties :
Crystallographic , physical , optical , and chemical properties .
The crystallographic data given include interaxial angles and unit cell dimensions ; ;
the physical property values include hardness , melting point , and specific gravity .
Sources of data :
Almost entirely original articles in journals ; ;
abstracts and other compilations on rare occasions when original papers are not available .
Criticality :
All information is carefully appraised and uncertain facts are designated by ( '?' .
) An authentic diffraction pattern is always obtained and optical properties are frequently checked .
Use of nomenclature , symbols , units , physical constants :
Recommendations of international authorities , such as the International Union of Crystallography , are followed .
There is a complete synonymy at the beginning of each species description .
Currency :
Currency in the usual sense cannot be maintained in an undertaking of this sort .
Format :
The data are presented in text and tables in bound volumes .
Volume 1 , of the seventh edition contains an introduction and data for eight classes of minerals ; ;
Volume 2 , contains data for forty-two classes .
References are given at the end of each mineral description and a general index is given at the end of each volume .
There will be a comprehensive index in Volume 3 , covering all three volumes .
Publication and distribution :
Volume 1 ( ( Af ) of the seventh edition of Dana's System Of Mineralogy was published in 1944 and Volume 2 ( ( Af ) in 1951 by John Wiley & Sons , Inc. , New York , N. Y. .
( The association of Wiley & Sons with the Dana Mineralogies dates back to 1844 when they published the second edition of the system .
) The two volumes are available from the publisher for $14.00 and $16.00 , respectively .
2-5 .
The Groth Institute
organization :
`` The Groth Institute '' , which was established in 1958 , is a group activity affiliated with the Physics Department of The Pennsylvania State University , University Park , Pa. .
Ray Pepinsky is the Director .
The Institute derives its name from Paul Von Groth's Chemische Krystallographie , a five-volume work which appeared between 1906 and 1919 .
The resident staff is large and consists of professional assistants , graduate students , abstractors , librarian , technical editor , machine operators , secretarial help , and others .
There are also corresponding members and outside advisory groups .
The Air Force Office of Scientific Research has provided financial assistance in the early stages of the Institute's program .
Substances :
All crystalline substances and other solid-state materials .
Properties :
The aim is to collect a very broad range of physical , chemical , morphological , and structural data for crystals on an encyclopedic scale and to seek all possible useful and revealing correlations of properties with internal structure .
Sources of data :
The first stage of operation has centered on the literature imaging of critical or summarizing tabulations such as the Barker Index .
Coverage of primary literature will follow .
Unpublished data will be available to the Groth institute from cooperating groups and individuals .
Criticality :
Critical evaluation of all data compiled is not a primary aim of this project .
However , the proposed correlation of the many interrelated properties of crystals will reveal discrepancies in the recorded data and suggest areas for reinvestigation .
In addition , the availability of computers will permit recalculation and refinement of much structural information .
Use of nomenclature , symbols , units , physical constants :
For punched-card or tape storage of information all literature values must be conformed to a common language .
In this way a degree of unification of nomenclature , symbols , and units will be realized .
Because individual classes of foods differ in their requirements for preservation , a number of methods have been developed over the years involving one or a combination of procedures such as dehydration , fermentation , salting , chemical treatment , canning , refrigeration , and freezing .
The basic objectives in each instance are to make available supplies of food during the intervals between harvesting or slaughter , to minimize losses resulting from the action of microorganisms and insects , and to make it possible to transport foods from the area of harvest or production to areas of consumption .
In earlier years , the preservation of food was essentially related to survival .
In the more sophisticated atmosphere of today's developed nations , food-preservation techniques have sought also to bring variety , peak freshness , and optimum taste and flavor in foods at reasonable cost to the consumer .
With the development of nuclear technology , isotopic materials , and machine radiation sources in recent years , the possibilities of applying ionizing radiation to the preservation of foods attracted the attention of investigators in the United States and throughout the world .
An early hope that irradiation might be the ultimate answer to practically all food preservation problems was soon dispelled .
Interest remained , however , in the possibility that it would serve as a useful supplementary method for counteracting spoilage losses and for preserving some foods at lower over-all costs than freezing , or without employing heat or chemicals with their attendant taste alterations .
Factors responsible for the spoilage of foods
The chief factors responsible for the spoilage of fresh foodstuffs are ( 1 ) microorganisms such as bacteria , molds , and yeasts , ( 2 ) enzymes , ( 3 ) insects , ( 4 ) sprouting , and ( 5 ) chemical reactions .
Microorganisms are often responsible for the rapid spoilage of foods .
Of special concern is the growth of bacteria such as Clostridium botulinum which generate poisonous products .
Enzymatic action in stored food produces changes which can adversely affect the appearance of food or its palatability .
Spoilage by chemical action results from the reaction of one group of components in the food with others or with its environment , as in corrosion of the walls of metal containers or the reaction of fats with oxygen in the air to produce rancidity .
Sprouting is a naturally occurring phenomenon in stored potatoes , onions , carrots , beets , and similar root vegetables .
Insect infestation is a problem of importance chiefly in stored grain .
The presence of parasitic organisms such as Trichinella spiralis in pork introduces another factor which must be dealt with in food processing .
To permit the storage of food for long periods of time , a method of preservation must accomplish the destruction of microorganisms and inhibition of enzymatic action .
The term `` sterilization '' applies to methods involving essentially complete destruction of all microorganisms .
Food treated in this manner and protected from recontamination by aseptic methods of packaging and containment presumably could be stored for long periods without refrigeration .
The process of `` pasteurization '' involves milder and less prolonged heat treatment which accomplishes the destruction of most , but not all , of the microorganisms .
Less severe thermal treatment as by blanching or scalding serves to inactivate enzymes .
General effects of ionizing radiation
Ionizing radiation can cause the destruction of microorganisms and insects involved in food spoilage or , at lower doses , can inhibit their action .
It furnishes a means of destroying insects in stored grain products as well as certain parasitic organisms present in meats .
Deactivation of enzymes is also possible , although some types require extremely heavy doses of 10 Mrad or more .
Because of undesirable flavors , odors , colors , and generally low palatability associated with radiation treatment of this magnitude , the inactivation of enzymes is best accomplished prior to irradiation by the conventional heat-processing methods of blanching .
Radiation does not retard the chemical spoilage of food .
It will , however , inhibit the sprouting of potatoes and other root vegetables .
The radiation doses required for the preservation of foods are in the following ranges : 1 .
For radiosterilization , to destroy all organisms for long-term preservation -- about 4.5 Mrad for nonacid foods of low salt content .
2 .
For radiopasteurization , to partially destroy microorganisms ; ;
results vary with types of food , storage conditions , and objectives of treatment -- commonly of the order of 0.2 Mrads but up to about 0.8 Aj .
3 .
For destruction of insects -- about 25,000 Aj .
4 .
For inhibiting the sprouting of root vegetables -- 4,000 to 10,000 Aj .
Preserving foods with ionizing radiation leads to some undesirable side effects , particularly at the higher radiation dosages .
In this respect , the general palatability and individual acceptance of most radiosterilized foods has , to date , been found to be low in comparison with fresh and commercially processed foods .
A number of foods are quite acceptable as regards taste and palatability , however , at dosages substantially less than sterilization levels .
Moreover , the nutritive value of irradiated foods apparently undergoes little , if any , change , although some of the fat-soluble vitamins are affected by sterilization doses .
Radiation sources
For irradiation of food , the results obtained depend upon the dose rather than the specific type of radiation , and X-ray , gamma , and high-energy electron radiation are suitable .
Aside from availability and economic considerations , each has certain practical advantages ; ;
for example , gamma rays give deeper penetration but cannot be focused or collimated , whereas unidirectional electron beams may be split and directed to both the top and bottom of the food package to be irradiated .
Selection of a source for commercial irradiation would involve consideration of numerous factors including required dose rate , load factor , throughput , convenience , safety , and most important , costs .
Of the potentially useful sources of ionizing radiations , gamma sources , cobalt-60 , cesium-137 , fission products , or a reactor irradiation loop system using a material such as an indium salt have received most attention for food-preservation systems .
Of the various particle accelerators , the Van De Graff machines , resonant transformers , and linear accelerators are the principal ones available for commercial use .
Costs of the effective energy produced by these sources is a major obstacle in the development of food-preservation processes .
Estimated production costs of radiation energy from machine and nuclide sources range from $1 to $10 per Aj .
Conventional energy for processing foods is available in the range of at most a few cents per kwhr for electric power and the equivalent of a few mills per kwhr for process steam .
Radiation , therefore , is at an initial cost disadvantage even though only 1 to 10 per cent as much radiation energy as heat energy is required for radiopasteurization or radiosterilization .
What are the possibilities of lowered radiation production costs for the future ? ?
It has been estimated that for applications on a megawatt scale costs might reach values in the neighborhood of 10 cents per kwhr for large-scale accelerators or for gamma radiation generated in a reactor core .
No comparable reductions in the cost of nuclide radiation are foreseen .
Such projections , however , appear highly speculative and the capacities involved are far beyond those foreseen for food-preservation facilities .
Because agricultural activities are seasonal and the areas of production and harvest of many foods are widely scattered geographically , and because of the high cost of transporting bulk food items any substantial distance to a central processing location , the use of large central processing stations , where low-cost radiation facilities approaching the megawatt range might be utilized , is inherently impracticable .
Present status of irradiation preservation of foods
The objective of complete sterilization of foods is to produce a wholesome and palatable product capable of being stored without refrigeration for extended periods of time .
Chief interest in radiosterilization resides in the military services .
For them , providing appetizing food under battle or emergency conditions is a paramount consideration .
They require completely sterile foods capable of being stored without refrigeration , preferably items already cooked and ready to eat .
High nutritional value , variety , palatability , and appetizing appearance are important for reasons of morale .
Foods for rear stations , which require cooking , but no refrigeration , are also of interest .
Of primary interest are meats .
Radiopasteurization , which produces fewer adverse sensory changes in food products , has potential usefulness in prolonging the keeping qualities of fresh and refrigerated food items .
Thus , food so processed might reach more remote markets and permit the consumer to enjoy more produce at peak freshness and palatability .
Commercial interest is chiefly in this type of treatment , as is military interest under peacetime conditions .
The present status of food preservation by ionizing radiation is discussed by food classes in the following paragraphs .
Meats
The radiation processing of meat has received extensive investigation .
To date , the one meat showing favorable results at sterilization doses is pork .
Of particular interest to the military services is the demonstration that roast pork , after radiosterilization , is superior in palatability to available canned pork products .
Tests with beef have been largely unsuccessful because of the development of off-flavors .
A prime objective of the Army Quartermaster Corps program is to find the reasons for beef's low palatability and means of overcoming it , since it is a major and desirable dietary item .
Partly because low-level heat treatment is needed to inactivate enzymes before radiosterilization , treated fresh meats have the appearance of boiled or canned meat .
Off-flavor is a less severe problem with the radiopasteurization of meats , but problems of commercial acceptability remain .
Moderate radiation doses of from 100,000 to 200,000 rads can extend the shelf life ( at 35 F ) of fresh beef from 5 days to 5 or 6 weeks .
However , the problem of consumer acceptability remains .
The preradiation blanching process discolors the treated beef and liquid accumulates in prepackaged cuts .
Cooked beef irradiated in the absence of oxygen assumes an unnatural pink color .
When lamb and mutton are irradiated at substerilization doses , the meat becomes dehydrated , the fat becomes chalky , and , again , unnatural changes in color occur .
Ground meats such as fresh pork sausage and hamburger have a relatively short shelf life under refrigeration , and radiopasteurization might be thought to offer distinctly improved keeping qualities .
However , a major problem here is one of scale of processing ; ;
ground meats are usually prepared from scrap meats at the local level , whereas irradiation at economic volumes of production would require central processing and distribution facilities .
The problems of color change by blanching and liquid accumulation within the package are the same as for solid cuts .
Specialty cooked items containing meat portions , as in `` frozen dinners '' might offer a potential use for radiopasteurization .
The principal potential advantage would be that the finished product could be transported and stored at lower cost under refrigeration instead of being frozen .
A refrigerated item could also be heated and served in less time than is required for frozen foods of the same type .
Competitive processes for preserving meats are by canning and freezing .
Costs of canning meat are in the range of 0.8 to 5 cents per pound ; ;
costs of freezing are in the area of 2 to 3.5 cents per pound .
The table on page 10 shows costs of canning and freezing meat , and estimated costs for irradiation under certain assumed conditions .
Under the conditions of comparison , it will be noted that : ( 1 )
Radiosterilization ( at 3 Mrad ) is more expensive than canning , particularly for the cesium-137 source .
( 2 )
Radiopasteurization by either the electron accelerator or cesium-137 source is in the range of freezing costs .
( 3 )
Irradiation using the nuclide source is more expensive than use of an electron accelerator .
Poultry
Results of irradiation tests with poultry have been quite successful .
At sterilizing doses , good palatability results , with a minimum of changes in appearance , taste , and odor .
Radiopasteurization has also been successful , and the shelf life of chicken can be extended to a month or more under refrigerated storage as compared with about 10 days for the untreated product .
Acceptable taste and odor are retained by the irradiated and refrigerated chicken .
Acceptance of radiopasteurization is likely to be delayed , however , for two reasons : ( 1 ) the storage life of fresh chicken under refrigeration is becoming a minimal problem because of constantly improved sanitation and distributing practices , and ( 2 ) treatment by antibiotics , a measure already approved by the Federal Food and Drug Administration , serves to extend the storage life of chicken at a low cost of about 0.5 cents per pound .
Seafood
Fresh seafood products are extremely perishable .
Although refrigeration has served to extend the storage life of these products , substantially increased consumption might be possible if areas remote from the seacoast could be served adequately .
Furthermore , it has made an exact assessment of the removal mechanisms possible .
The instrument is shown in Fig. 1 and consists essentially of a hard , sharp , tungsten carbide knife which is pushed along the substrate to remove the coating .
The force required to accomplish removal is plotted , by means of an electronic recorder , against distance of removal .
Since the removal force is a function of coating thickness , a differential transformer pickup has been incorporated into the instrument to accurately measure film thickness .
This , too , is recorded against distance by a repeat run over the same track previously cut .
A number of adjustment features are included in the Hesiometer to facilitate measurement and permit ready removal of coatings deposited on such substrates as iron and other metals , glass , wood , and plastic surfaces .
The measurement of topcoats on primers can also readily be carried out .
Hesiometer results have been found to compare excellently with manual knife scratching tests .
The instrumental method , however , is about 100 times more sensitive and yields numerical results which can be accurately repeated at will over a period of time .
If a wedge-shaped coating of increasing thickness is removed from a substrate by an instrument like the Hesiometer with a knife of constant rake angle , a number of removal mechanisms are often observed which depend upon the thickness of the coating .
At low thicknesses a cutting ( or shearing ) phenomenon is often encountered .
As the coating becomes thicker , the cutting may abruptly change to a cracking type of failure .
If the coating becomes still thicker , a peeling type failure finally can occur .
The typical appearance of these various mechanisms is illustrated in Figs. 2 , 3 , and 4 , which are single frame enlargements of high speed movies taken during the course of the knife removal process .
It can be seen from Fig. 2 that the cutting removal of a coating from its substrate involves pure cohesive failure of the coating .
The molecular forces holding the coating to the substrate are obviously greater than the cohesive strength of the coating and failure occurs by shear along a plane starting at the tip of the knife and extending to the coating surface .
The pictures of Figs. 3 and 4 show the cracking and peeling types of removal where the coating is detached by failure in a region at , or close to , the interface between coating and substrate .
If the force required to remove the coatings is plotted against film thickness , a graph as illustrated schematically in Fig. 5 may characteristically result .
Here , H is the coatings removal force measured parallel to the surface of the substrate and T is the film thickness .
It can be seen that the force is characteristic of the removal process and changes abruptly from cutting to cracking to peeling removal .
Also , it can be readily seen that the cutting and peeling types of failure show a steady state response , while the cracking mechanism is of a dynamic nature .
It should be recalled that these three mechanisms can occur on the same coating deposited upon the same substrate merely as a function of changes in coatings thickness .
Presumably the interfacial bond strength and gross cohesive properties are identical in each case .
What then , are the factors that contribute to these phenomena ? ?
Why should the `` practical adhesion '' of a coating as assessed by a knife method change , initially increasing rather rapidly and then decreasing stepwise to very low values as the knife is forced through a coating of increasing thickness ? ?
Cutting mechanism of cohesive failure
The cutting ( or shearing ) removal process has been previously described .
It was found that the coating is separated from its substrate entirely by cohesive failure .
The details of the removal process are shown schematically in Fig. 6 .
The various forces result from the reaction of the removed paint chip against the face of the knife and along the shear plane , which makes an angle **yf with the substrate .
The action and reaction forces are R and Af , respectively , and are equal and opposite in direction .
All the other force vectors are derived from these .
Af is the force required to cut a coating of thickness T from the substrate .
Af is the shear force along the shear plane ; ;
Af and Af are the thrust forces acting against coating and knife , respectively ; ;
Af is the normal compressive force acting on the shear plane ; ;
Af is the friction force between chip and knife surfaces , and P is the normal force acting on the face of the knife .
**yc is the rake angle of the knife ; ;
**yf is the angle the shear plane makes with the substrate ; ;
**yt is the friction angle ; ;
and **yb is the angle the resultants make with the plane of the substrate .
An analysis of the vector relationships shows that the rake angle **yc and the friction angle **yt determine the vector direction Af of the force resultants R and Af .
Consequently , both the rake angle of the knife as well as the friction occurring between the back of the removed coating and the front of the knife will determine in large part the detailed mechanism of the cutting removal process .
It is difficult to measure the direction and magnitude of R directly .
In actual practice , the values most readily amenable to measurement are the cutting force Af and the shear angle Aj .
These two values and the rake angle **yc are sufficient to determine the other parameters of these relationships .
**yc is defined by the geometry of the knife ; ;
**yf can readily be determined by measuring the thickness of the coating before and after cutting from the substrate ; ;
Af is instrumentally determined .
From Fig. 6 the relationship between these parameters can readily be derived and the cutting force is Af where **yl is the shear strength of the coating and is a parameter of the coatings material , W is the width of the removed coating and T is its thickness .
If the cutting force , Af , is plotted against film thickness , a straight line should result passing through the origin and having slope Af .
However , in the actual assessment of the cutting force by instrumental methods for any thickness of coating a number of spurious effects occur which must be taken into account and which make the measured value larger than the true cutting force indicated by eqn. ( 1 ) .
Blunt knife
One of these is the fact that the knife employed , no matter how well sharpened , will have a slightly rounded cutting edge .
This signifies that **yc , the rake angle , is no longer a constant to zero film thickness .
The curvature of this bluntness is , in the case of the Carboloy knife employed in the Hesiometer , determined by the grain sizes of the polished grit and the tungsten carbide crystals cemented together in the knife body and is in the order of 0.1 to 0.2 mil. .
The force vector concept of Fig. 6 can readily be applied to this condition also .
Because the rake angle Af at the tip of the knife is very much smaller ( or even negative ) when compared to the value of **yc for the major portion of the knife , a very rapid increase in cutting force with thickness will result .
This reduces to the relationship : Af , where Af is the intercept at zero thickness of the extrapolation of the slope indicated in eqn. ( 1 ) , Af is the thickness of the coating equivalent to the rounding off of the knife tip , Af is a straight line first approximation of this roundness , and the other symbols are equivalent to those of eqn. ( 1 ) .
It can be seen that Af is a constant , and is determined for the most part by the geometry of the knife .
The blunter the knife , the higher is the value of Af .
The importance of a hard , abrasion-resistant knife material like the Carboloy employed in the Hesiometer immediately becomes apparent .
Softer knives would blunt very rapidly , making the value of Af inexact .
In extreme cases of very soft knives this value may even change during the course of a measurement .
Knife friction
A second factor which enters into the practical measurement of the instrumentally determined cutting force is the frictional resistance caused by the bottom of the knife against the substrate .
This is not a constant value like Af , but varies with the thickness of the coating and the direction and magnitude of the resultants R and Af of Fig. 6 .
Under equilibrium conditions of cutting the chip exerts a thrust Af against the knife which tends to push it into the substrate or lift it away from the substrate depending on the vector direction of Af .
The resultant friction force , Af is thus directly proportional to Af and consequently also to film thickness .
The value of Af can readily be assessed by determining the frictional force exerted on the knife while running over the previously stripped coating track under various external loadings .
A straight line relationship is usually observed in a plot of Af against load L , having slope k , and Af .
Since the load L , under actual cutting conditions is caused by Af , it can be seen that Af
.
The measured force , H , in cutting removal of coatings from their substrates consequently can be seen to be the sum of that force required to cut the coating , Af , that due to the bluntness of the knife , Af , and that due to the friction between the bottom of the knife and the substrate , Af , or Af .
The first two forces are directly interrelated and depend upon film thickness , whereas Af is independent of these two and is a constant for a given knife/coating combination .
These theoretical relationships are more clearly illustrated in Fig. 7 and their sum can be seen to correlate in form with practical measurements made with the Hesiometer as illustrated in the first portion of Fig. 5 for the cutting mechanism .
Chipping mechanism of cohesive failure
Although a large number of coatings systems , particularly at low thicknesses fail cohesively by the cutting mechanism , frequently a second type of cohesive failure may also take place .
This is a chipping , dynamic type failure encountered with very brittle coatings resins or very highly pigmented films .
This is shown in the photomicrograph of Fig. 8 .
The basic difference between the continuous cutting mechanism and that of the chipping mechanism is that instead of shear occurring in the coating ahead of the knife continuously without fracture , rupture intermittently occurs along the shear plane .
The detailed mechanisms of this type of failure have been studied extensively by Merchant for metal cutting , and the principles found can be directly applied to coatings .
By studying high speed movies made of this type of failure , the sequence of relationships as schematically illustrated in Fig. 9 could be observed .
In the first picture ( 9a ) the knife is just beginning to advance into the inclined surface which was left from the previous chip formation .
In the next , the shear plane angle is high , and extends to the inclined work surface .
With increasing advance of the knife into the coating the shear plane extends to the coatings surface and the shear angle rapidly decreases .
Eventually , rupture occurs along the shear plane ( 9e ) , and the cycle repeats itself .
Merchant has found that the same basic relationships which describe the geometry and force systems in the case of the cutting mechanism can also be applied to the discontinuous chip formation provided the proper values of instantaneous shear angle and instantaneous chip thickness or cross-sectional area are used .
Consequently , if the shear angle **yf is replaced by the rupture angle Af , the relationships as described in eqns. ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 4 ) , and ( 6 ) will directly apply .
The cracking mechanism
Under equilibrium cutting conditions , the chip exerts a force Af against the coating and an equal opposite force Af against the knife in the plane of the substrate as shown in Fig. 6 .
If the rake angle **yc of the knife is high enough and the friction angle **yt between the front of the knife and the back of the chip is low enough to give a positive value for Af , the resultant vector R will lie above the plane of the substrate .
Within only a few years , foamed plastics materials have managed to grow into an integral , and important , phase of the plastics industry -- and the end is still not yet in sight .
Urethane foam , as only one example , was only introduced commercially in this country in 1955 .
Yet last year's volume probably topped 100 million lb. and expectations are for a market of 275 million lb. by 1964 .
Many of the other foamed plastics , particularly the styrenes , show similar growth potential .
And there are even newer foamed plastics that are yet to be evaluated .
As this issue goes to press , for example , one manufacturer has announced an epoxy foam with outstanding buoyancy and impact strength ; ;
another reports that a cellular polypropylene , primarily for use in wire coating applications , is being investigated .
On the following pages , each of the major commercial foamed plastics is described in detail , as to properties , applications , and methods of processing .
It might be well to point out , however , some of the newer developments that have taken place within the past few months which might have a bearing on the future of the various foamed plastics involved .
In urethane foams , for example , there has been a definite trend toward the polyether-type materials ( which are now available in two-component rigid foam systems ) and the emphasis is definitely on one-shot molding .
Most manufacturers also seem to be concentrating on formulating fire-resistant or self-extinguishing grades of urethane foam that are aimed specifically at the burgeoning building markets .
Urethane foam as an insulator is also coming in for a good deal of attention .
In one outstanding example , Whirlpool Corp. found that by switching to urethane foam insulation , they could increase the storage capacity of gas refrigerators to make them competitive with electric models .
Much interest has also been expressed in new techniques for processing the urethane foams , including spraying , frothing , and molding ( see article , p. 391 for details ) .
And in meeting the demands for urethane foam as a garment interlining , new adhesives and new methods of laminating foam to a substrate have been developed .
New techniques for automatic molding of expandable styrene beads have helped boost that particular material into a number of new consumer applications , including picnic chests , beverage coolers , flower pots , and flotation-type swimming toys .
Two other end-use areas which contributed to expandable styrene's growth during the year were packaging ( molded inserts replacing complicated cardboard units ) and foamed-core building panels .
Extruded expandable styrene film or sheet -- claimed to be competitive price-wise with paper -- also showed much potential , particularly for packaging .
Sandwich panels for building utility shelters that consist of kraft paper skins and rigid styrene foam cores also aroused interest in the construction field .
In vinyl foam , the big news was the development of techniques for coating fabrics with the material ( for details , see P. 395 ) .
Better `` hand '' , a more luxurious feel , and better insulating properties were claimed to be the result .
Several companies also saw possibilities in using the technique for extruding or molding vinyl products with a slight cellular core that would reduce costs yet would not affect physical properties of the end product to any great extent .
Readers interested in additional information on foams are referred to the Foamed Plastics Chart appearing in the Technical Data section and to the list of references which appears below .
Urethane foams
Since the mid 1950s , when urethane foam first made its appearance in the American market , growth has been little short of fantastic .
Present estimates are that production topped the 100-million-lb. mark in 1960 ( 85 to 90 million lb. for flexible , 10 or 11 million lb. for rigid ) ; ;
by 1965 , production may range from 200 to 350 million lb. for flexible and from 115 to 150 million lb. for rigid .
The markets that have started to open up for the foam in the past year or so seem to justify the expectations .
Furniture upholstery , as just one example , can easily take millions of pounds ; ;
foamed refrigerator insulation is under intensive evaluation by every major manufacturer ; ;
and use of the foam for garment interlining is only now getting off the ground , with volume potential in the offing .
Basic chemistry
Urethane foams are , basically , reaction products of hydroxyl-rich materials and polyisocyanates ( usually tolylene diisocyanate ) .
Blowing can be either one of two types -- carbon dioxide gas generated by the reaction of water on the polyisocyanate or mechanical blowing through the use of a low-boiling liquid such as a fluorinated hydrocarbon .
The most important factor in determining what properties the end-product will have is quite naturally the type of hydroxyl-rich compound that is used in its production .
Originally , the main types used were various compositions of polyesters .
These are still in wide use today , particularly in semi-rigid formulations , for such applications as cores for sandwich-type structural panels , foamed-in-place insulation , automotive safety padding , arm rests , etc. .
More recently , polyethers -- again in varied compositions , molecular weights , and branching -- have come into use at first for the flexible foams , just lately for the rigids .
The polyether glycols are claimed to give flexible urethanes a spring-back action which is much desired in cushioning .
Although the first polyether foams on the market had to be produced by the two-step prepolymer method , today , thanks to new catalysts , they can be produced by a one-shot technique .
It is possible that the polyether foams may soon be molded on a production basis in low-cost molds with more intricate contours and with superior properties to latex foam .
The polyester urethane foam is generally produced with adipic acid polyesters ; ;
the polyether group generally consists of foams produced with polypropylene glycol or polypropylene glycol modified with a triol .
One shot vs. prepolymer
In the prepolymer system , the isocyanate and resin are mixed anhydrously and no foaming occurs .
The foaming can be accomplished at some future time at a different location by the addition of the correct proportion of catalyst in solution .
In one-shot , the isocyanate , polyester or polyether resin , catalyst , and other additives are mixed directly and a foam is produced immediately .
Basically , this means that simpler processing equipment ( the mixture has good flowing characteristics ) and less external heat ( the foaming reaction is exothermic and develops internal heat ) are required in one-shot foaming , although , at the same time , the problems of controlling the conditions of one-shot foaming are critical ones .
Properties
Most commercial uses of urethane foams require densities between 2 and 30 lb. / cu. ft. for rigid foams , between 1 and 3 lb. / cu. ft. for flexible foams .
This latter figure compares with latex foam rubber at an average of 5.5 lb. / cu. ft. in commercial grades .
Compression strength :
Graph in Fig. 1 , p. 392 , indicates how the ratio of compressive strength to density varies as the latter is increased or decreased .
The single curve line represents a specific formulation in a test example .
By varying the formula , this curve may be moved forward or backward along the coordinates to produce any desired compression strength / density ratio .
Thermal conductivity and temperature resistance :
In flexible urethane foams , we are referring to the range between the highest and lowest temperatures under which the materials' primary performance remains functionally useful .
In temperature resistance , this quality is usually related to specific properties , e.g. , flexural , tensile strengths , etc. .
Thermal conductivity is directly traceable to the material's porous , air-cell construction which effectively traps air or a gas in the maze of minute bubbles which form its composition .
These air or gas bubbles make highly functional thermal barriers .
The K factor , a term used to denote the rate of heat transmission through a material ( B.t.u./sq. ft. of material/hr./*0F./in. of thickness ) ranges from 0.24 to 0.28 for flexible urethane foams and from 0.12 to 0.16 for rigid urethane foams , depending upon the formulation , density , cell size , and nature of blowing agents used .
Table 1 , , p. 394 , shows a comparison of K factor ratings of a number of commercial insulating materials in common use , including two different types of rigid urethane foam .
Flexural strength :
This term refers to the ability of a material to resist bending stress and is determined by measuring the load required to cause failure by bending .
The higher-density urethane semi-rigid foams usually have stronger flex fatigue resistance , i.e. , the 12 lb. / cu. ft. foam has 8 times the flexural strength of the 3 lb. / cu. ft. density .
Note that flexural strength is not always improved by simply increasing the density , nor is the change always proportional from one formulation to another .
Where flexural strength is an important factor , be sure that your urethane foam processor is aware of it .
Tensile strength :
This property refers to the greatest longitudinal stress or tension a material can endure without tearing apart .
( like compression strength of urethane foams , it has a direct relationship to formulation .
) Exceptional tensile strength is another of urethane foam's strong features .
Figure 2 , above , shows the aging properties of urethane foams as determined by the percent of change in tensile strength during exposure to ultra-violet light .
Processing urethanes
There are many ways of producing a foamed urethane product .
The foam can be made into slab stock and cut to shape , it can be molded , it can be poured-in-place , it can be applied by spray guns , etc. .
Slab stock is still one of the most important forms of urethane end-product in use today .
Basically , the foam machines that produce such stock consist of two or more pumping units , a variable mixer , a nozzle carriage assembly , and , in many cases , a conveyor belt to transport and contain the liquid during the reaction process and until it solidifies into foam .
The ingredients are fed from tanks through a hose and into the mixer at a predetermined rate .
The mixing head moves back and forth slowly across the width of the receptacle .
It only takes a few minutes for the foaming action to be completed and after a short cure , the material can be cut into lengths as desired .
Much has been done in the way of ingenious slitters to fabricate the slab stock into finished products .
Profile cutting machines are available which can split foam to any desired thickness and produce sine , triangle , trapezoid , and other profiles in variable heights , dimensions , etc. .
The convoluted sheets can be combined to attain certain cushioning effects mechanically rather than chemically .
Also available is a slitter which `` peels '' the inside of a folded block of foam and can be used to slit continuous sheets up to 300 yd. in length , down to 1/16 in. thick .
The low cost and ease of fabrication of the dies for three-dimensional foam cutting plus the wide variety of shapes , dimensions , and contours that can be tailor-made to customer requirements has made the technique useful for producing case liners , materials handling containers , packaging and cushioning devices , and such novelties as soap dishes , toys , head rests , arch supports , and gas pedal covers .
Molding
Although slab stock appeared first , it soon became apparent that for the production of cushions with irregular shapes , crowned contours , or rounded edges , the cutting of slab stock is a wasteful and uneconomical process .
Only by resorting to molding techniques can the cushion manufacturer hope to compete satisfactorily in the established cushion market .
The closed molding of flexible urethane foams has been a problem ever since the introduction of the material ( molding in open molds was more feasible ) .
Satisfactory methods for polyester foams and even prepolymer polyether foams were never fully achieved .
Closed molding generally resulted in parts weighing more ( because of higher density ) than parts fabricated from free-blown foams .
This counteracted the gain from having no scrap loss .
In addition , there were difficulties with the flow and spreading of the foam mixture over the mold surface , trouble with lack of gel strength in the rising foam , and problems of splits .
The introduction of one-shot polyether foam systems , aided by the development of new catalysts , helped to alleviate some of the problems of closed molding .
While there are still many bugs to be ironed out , the technique is fast developing .
Other techniques
Simple systems are available that make it possible for urethane foam components to be poured , pumped , etc. , into a void where they foam up to fill the void .
In a typical application -- the making of rigid urethane foam sandwich panels -- an amount of foam mixture calculated to expand 10 to 20% more than the volume of the panel is poured into the panel void and the top of the panel is locked in place by a jig .
Temperature of the wash and rinse waters is maintained at 85 - 90-degrees-F ( 29 - 32-degrees-C ) .
The top rolls are loaded with 40 lbs. .
Sixty lbs. loading is possible but 40 lbs. is adequate .
The suds box drain is arranged at the start to deliver into the raised main drain pipe ( thus returning suds to soap box ) and the machine is started .
The 160-ml. bath containing the calculated amount of detergent is applied slowly and directly to the running specimen .
Washing is continued for 30 minutes or for a period of time sufficient to allow 100 nips or passes through the squeeze rolls .
At the conclusion of the washing , 8 liters of water at 90-degrees-F ( 32*0C. ) are automatically metered from the rinse reservoir to the washing tubs , 4 liters to each tub .
This operation requires from 10 to 12 minutes .
During the rinsing operation the volume in the tubs gradually increases until overflow from the main drain begins .
At this point the drains are readjusted so that the suds box drain will discharge directly into the waste line and the main tub drain is set at the 2-1/2 mark on the drain gauge .
When all of the rinse water has passed from the reservoir to the tubs the main drains are lowered to permit complete draining of the tubs .
The run is complete when all the water has drained off into the waste line .
By this procedure rinsing progresses in two stages , first by dilution until the time when the drains are separated and thereafter by displacement of the soil-bearing liquor by clean rinse water , since soiled liquor squeezed from the specimens at the nip passes directly to waste from the suds box drains .
This method of rinsing appears to produce maximum cleansing with minimum soil redeposition .
Suggested evaluation and classification
Evaluation may be made on either a soil-removal or a grease-removal basis as desired .
A reflectance-measuring instrument may be desirable to measure cleaning , whereas Soxhlet extraction is necessary to measure grease removal .
Purpose and scope
This test method is intended for determining the dimensional changes of woven or knitted fabrics , made of fibers other than wool , to be expected when the cloth is subjected to laundering procedures commonly used in the commercial laundry and the home .
Four washing test procedures are established , varying in severity from very severe to very mild , and are intended to cover the range of practical washing from commercial procedure to hand washing .
Five drying test procedures are established to cover the range of drying techniques used in the home and commercial laundry .
Three methods for determining the dimensional restorability characteristics are established for those textiles which require restoration by ironing or wearing after laundering .
These tests are not accelerated and must be repeated to evaluate dimensional changes after repeated launderings .
Table 1 , summarizes all of the various washing , drying , and restoration procedures available .
The person using these tests must determine which combination of procedures is practical for any specific item in order to evaluate the dimensional changes of textile fabrics or garments after laundering procedures commonly used in the home or commercial laundry .
It is possible to identify the test procedure completely with a code consisting of a Roman Numeral , a letter , and an Arabic number .
For example Test 3 , E 1 refers to a specimen which has been washed by procedure `` 3 ( '' ( at 160-degrees-F ) for a total of 60 minutes in the machine , has been dried in a tumble dryer by procedure `` E '' and has been subjected to restorative forces on the Tension Presser by procedure `` 1 '' .
Principle
A specimen or garment is washed in a cylindrical reversing wash wheel , dried and subjected to restorative forces where necessary .
Temperature and time of agitation in the wash wheel are varied to obtain different degrees of severity .
Drying procedures and application of restorative force procedures are varied to conform with end-use handling during home or commercial laundering .
Distances marked on the specimen in warp and filling directions ( or wales and courses for knitted fabrics ) are measured before and after laundering .
Apparatus and materials
wash wheel -- cylindrical wash wheel of the reversing type .
The wheel ( cage ) is 20 to 24 inches inside diameter and 20 to 24 inches inside length .
There are three fins each approximately three inches wide extending the full length of the inside of the wheel .
One fin is located every 120-degrees around the inside diameter of the wheel .
The wash wheel rotates at a speed of 30 revolutions per minute , making five to ten revolutions before reversing .
The water inlets are large enough to permit filling the wheel to an eight-inch level in less than two minutes , and the outlet is large enough to permit discharge of this same amount of water in less than two minutes .
The machine is equipped with a pipe for injecting live steam that is capable of raising the temperature of water at an eight-inch level from 110-degrees to 140-degrees-F ( 38*0 to 60*0C. ) in less than two minutes .
The machine shall contain an opening for the insertion of a thermometer or other equivalent equipment for determining the temperature of the water during the washing and rinsing procedures .
It is equipped with an outside water gauge that will indicate the level of the water in the wheel .
A domestic automatic washer that will give equivalent results may be used .
The wash wheel is the equipment preferred for the test .
Pressing equipment -- flat-bed press measuring 24 inches by 50 inches or larger .
Any flat-bed press capable of pressing a specimen 22 inches square may be used as an alternative .
The flat-bed press is maintained at a temperature not less than 275-degrees-F ( 135*0C. ) .
Dryer -- dryer of the rotary tumble type , having a cylindrical basket approximately 30 inches in diameter and 24 inches in length and rotating at approximately 35 r.p.m. .
The dryer is provided with a means of maintaining a drying temperature of 120-degrees - 160-degrees-F ( 49*0 - 71*&0C. ) , measured in the exhaust vent as close as possible to the drying chamber .
Screen drying racks -- 16-mesh screening ( Saran or Velon ) .
Drying room -- facilities for drip- or line-drying .
Extractor -- centrifugal extractor of the laundry-type with a perforated basket , approximately 11 inches deep by 17 inches in diameter , with an operating speed of approximately 1,500 r.p.m. .
Pen and ink , indelible -- or other suitable marking device .
measuring scale --
Soap , neutral chip -- fed. Spec. 566 or Aj .
Softener -- e.g. sodium metaphosphate or sodium hexametaphosphate ( if needed in hard water areas ) .
Detergent , synthetic -- alkylarysulfonate type .
Flatiron , electric -- approximately 3 lb.
tension presser -- consisting of a padded ironing board from which extend clamping members on all four sides .
Two of the clamps are fixed to the edges of the board whereas two clamps travel on guide rails opposite the fixed clamps .
The movable clamps travel on carriages which ride the rails and are drawn by dead-weight loading .
Sets of weights are provided so that the load can be selected in the range of 1/2 to 4 pounds .
A perforated aluminum plate , used to provide the drying surface , is heated by means of a flatiron .
A special template is furnished with the apparatus to enable marking a specimen for a central measuring area and the fabric extensions to the clamps ( see Fig. 2 ) .
Knit shrinkage gauge -- consisting of a set of 20 mounting pins set in guides in radial slots ( Fig. 1 ) .
Each pin is individually sprung to a tensioning member which is driven outwardly in the slot .
The springs have an extension of 1 inch at Af tension .
The tensioning members have a common drive so that the application of restorative force takes place simultaneously in all directions in the plane of the test specimen .
The minimum diameter of the pin frame in the collapsed state is 11 inches and the maximum diameter in the freely extended state ( unloaded ) is 14 inches .
The surface of the apparatus in contact with the test specimen is uncluttered and polished so as to be as friction-free as possible .
Test specimens
The preparation of test specimens will vary depending upon the type of dimensional restorability procedure ( if any ) to be used .
Three specimens for each sample to be tested are required in order to arrive at a satisfactory average of performance .
This is especially true for knitted fabrics .
Specimens are allowed to reach moisture equilibrium with a standard atmosphere of Af and Af and then laid out without tension on a flat , polished surface , care being taken that the fabric is free from wrinkles or creases .
Fabrics that are badly distorted in their unlaundered state due to faulty finishing may give deceptive dimensional change results when laundered by any procedure .
This also holds true if restorative forces are applied .
Therefore , it is recommended that in such cases the sample be replaced , or if used , the results of dimensional change or dimensional restorability tests be considered as indicative only .
Generally , it is necessary to mark distances on a specimen ( or garment ) in both lengthwise and widthwise directions and to measure before and after laundering .
The distances may be marked with indelible ink and a fine-point pen , by sewing fine threads into the fabric , or by a specially designed stamping machine .
The marked distances are parallel to the respective yarns .
Usually , the greater the original distances marked , the greater will be the accuracy of the test .
Distances of less than 10 inches are not recommended .
Woven fabrics to be dried by procedure b ( flat-bed pressed ) or restored by procedure 3 ( hand ironing ) :
The specimen of fabric is a rectangle at least 22 by 22 inches , except for cloth narrower than 22 inches , in which case the specimen is the entire width of the fabric .
Three distances , each at least 18 inches , are measured and marked off parallel to each of the warp and filling directions .
The distances are at least two inches from any edge of the specimen .
Woven or warp knitted fabrics to be subjected to restorative procedure 1 ( tension presser ) .
Each specimen is at least 25 inches by 25 inches .
Place the template ( Fig. 2 ) on the fabric so that the sides of the 10 inch square cut out of the template are parallel to the warp and filling for woven fabrics , or the wales and courses for knitted fabrics , and so that the same amount of fabric extends beyond the edges of the template on all sides .
Mark the specimen at the outer edges of the template with pen and indelible ink ; ;
also place three dots on the specimen at each side of the 10 inch square , one dot at midpoint , and one at approximately 1/2 inch from each corner .
Measure and record .
Circular knitted fabrics to be subjected to restorative procedure 2 , ( knit shrinkage gauge ) .
Each specimen is approximately 16 inches square .
The markings consist of a centrally located 10 inch diameter measuring circle and a 14 inch diameter circle of 20 dots equidistantly spaced ( See Figure 1 ) .
Garments .
Critical measurements in length and width directions should be taken before and after washing , drying , and restorative procedures .
Procedure
washing --
The washing procedures are summarized in Table 2 .
Place the specimen in the wash wheel with sufficient other similar fabric to make a dry load of Af pounds .
Start the wash wheel and note the time .
Immediately add water at 100 - 105-degrees-F ( 38 - 43*0C. ) to the wheel to a level of Af inches ; ;
this level will be increased by condensed steam .
When this water level has been reached , inject steam into the wheel until the temperature reaches that shown in Column B of Table 2 .
Add sufficient soap ( and softener if required to counteract hard water ) to furnish a good running suds , or if desired use a synthetic detergent .
Test 1 ,
-- Stop the wash wheel at the end of the time shown in Column A of Table 2 , and drain .
Refill the machine to a level of Af inches with water at 100 - 109-degrees-F ( ( 38 - 43*0 C. ) and start the machine .
Inject steam , if necessary , to reach the temperature shown in Column D of Table 2 .
Again stop the machine at the end of the time shown in Column C of Table 2 .
This procedure is repeated for the second rinse , using the temperatures and time shown in Columns F and E of Table 2 .
Tests 2 , 3 , , , and 4 .
-- Run the machine continuously until completion of the test .
Drain off the soap solution of the suds cycle at such a time that the wheel has become substantially empty of soap and water at the end of the time shown in Column A of Table 2 , , measured from the time the wash wheel was started .
Refill the machine to a level of Af inches with water at 100 - 109-degrees-F ( 38 - 43*0C. ) .
When this water level has been reached , inject steam until the temperature is that shown in Column Aj .
Drain off the water at such a time that the wheel has become substantially empty of water at the end of the sum of the times shown in Columns A and C , measured from the time the wash wheel was started .
Immediately refill to a level of Af inches with water at 100 - 109-degrees-F ( 38 - 43*0C ) .
When this water level has been reached inject steam until the temperature is that shown in Column Aj .
Drain off the water at such a time that the wheel has become substantially empty of water at the end of the sum of the times shown in Columns A , C , and E , measured from the time the wash wheel was started .
High-gain , photoelectronic image intensification is applied under conditions of low incident light levels whenever the integration time required by a sensor or recording instrument exceeds the limits of practicability .
Examples of such situations are ( aerial ) night reconnaissance , the recording of radioactive tracers in live body tissues , special radiography in medical or industrial applications , track recording of high energy particles , etc. .
High-gain photoelectronic image intensification may be achieved by several methods ; ;
some of these are listed below : ( A )
Cascading single stages by coupling lens systems , ( B )
Channel-type , secondary emission image intensifier , ( C )
Image intensifier based upon the `` multipactor '' principle , ( D )
Transmission secondary electron multiplication image intensifiers ( TSEM tubes ) , ( E )
Cascading of single stages , enclosed in one common envelope .
Cascading single stages by coupling lens systems is rather inefficient as the lens systems limit the obtainable gain quite severely .
Channel-type image intensifiers are capable of achieving high-gain values ; ;
they suffer , however , from an inherently low resolution .
Image intensifiers based upon the multipactor principle appear to hold promise as far as obtainable resolution is concerned .
However , the unavoidable low-duty cycle restricts the effective gain .
TSEM tubes have been constructed showing high gain and resolution .
However , electrostatic focus , important for many applications , has not been realized for these devices .
Resolution limitations with electrostatic focus might be anticipated due to chromatic aberrations .
Furthermore , the thin film dynodes appear to have a natural diameter limitation wherever a mesh support cannot be tolerated .
Cascaded single stages enclosed by a common envelope have been constructed with high gain and high resolution .
These tubes may differ both in the choice of the electron optical system and in the design of the coupling members .
The electron optical system may be either a magnetic or electrostatic one .
The magnification may be smaller , equal , or larger than unity .
An electrostatic system suffers generally from image plane curvature leading to defocusing in the peripheral image region if a flat viewing screen ( or interstage coupler ) is utilized , while a magnetic system requires accurate adjustment of the solenoid , which is heavy and bulky .
As it will be discussed later , peripheral defocusing can be improved on by utilizing curved fiber couplers .
It should be noted , however , that the paraxial resolution is quite similar for both electron optical systems .
It is felt that fiber-coupled double- ( and multi- ) stage image intensifiers will gain considerable importance in the future .
Therefore , we shall consider in this paper the theoretical gain and resolution capabilities of such tubes .
The luminous efficiency and resolution of single stages , fiber couplers , and finally of the composite tube will be computed .
It will be shown theoretically that the high image intensification obtainable with such a tube and contact photography permits the utilization of extremely low incident light levels .
The effect of device and quantum noise , associated with such low input levels , will be described .
After these theoretical considerations , constructional details of a fiber-coupled , double-stage X-ray image intensifier will be discussed .
Measured performance characteristics for this experimental tube will be listed .
The conclusion shall be reached that fiber-coupled , double-stage tubes represent a sensible and practical approach to high-gain image intensification .
Basic design of a fiber-coupled , double-stage image intensifier
The tube design which forms the basis of the theoretical discussion shall be described now .
The electron optical system ( see fig. 14-1 ) is based in principle on the focusing action of concentric spherical cathode and anode surfaces .
The inner ( anode ) sphere is pierced , elongated into a cup , and terminated by the phosphor screen .
The photoelectrons emitted from a circular segment of the cathode sphere are focused by the positive lens action of the two concentric spheres , pass through the ( negative ) lens formed by the anode aperture , and impinge upon the cathodoluminescent viewing screen .
The cylindrical focusing electrode permits adjustment of the positive lens part by varying the focusing potential .
The anode potential codetermines the gain , G , and magnification , M , of the stage .
Both the photocathode and the image plane of such an electrode configuration are curved concave as seen from the anode aperture .
The field-flattening property of the biconcave fiber coupler can be utilized to alleviate the peripheral resolution losses resulting with a flat phosphor-screen or coupling member .
For the same reason , the output fiber plate is planoconcave , its exposed flat side permitting contact photography if a permanent record is desired .
As it will be shown later , the field-flattening properties of the interstage and output fiber coupler comprise indeed the main advantage of such a design .
The second photocathode and both phosphor surfaces are deposited on the fiber plate substrates .
The photocathode sensitivities S , phosphor efficiencies P , and anode potentials V of the individual stages shall be distinguished by means of subscripts 1 , and 2 , in the text , where required .
Both stages are assumed to have unity magnification .
Theoretical discussion of flux gain
flux gain of a single stage
The luminous gain of a single stage with Af ( flux gain ) is , to a first approximation , given by the product of the photocathode sensitivity S ( amp / lumen ) , the anode potential V ( volts ) , and the phosphor conversion efficiency P ( lumen/watt ) .
In general , P is a function of V and the current density , but it shall here be assumed as a constant .
The luminous efficiency Af of a photocathode depends on the maximum radiant sensitivity Af and on the spectral distribution of the incident light Af by the relation : Af where Af is normalized radiant photocathode sensitivity .
Af is standard visibility function .
The luminous flux gain of a single stage is given by : Af .
If the input light distribution falls beyond the visible range , Af as expected , since Af .
Such cases are not considered here .
Efficiency of fiber couplers
The efficiency of fiber optics plates depends on four factors : ( A )
numerical aperture ( N.A. ) ; ;
( B )
end ( Fresnel reflection ) losses ( R ) ; ;
( C )
internal losses ( I.L. ) ; ;
( D )
packing efficiency ( F.R. ) .
The numerical aperture of the fibers is given by : Af where Af .
The angle Af is measured in the medium of index Af .
Settled phosphors , as generally used in image intensifiers , have low optical contact with the substrate surface , hence Af shall be assumed .
The numerical aperture should be in general close to unity .
This condition can be satisfied , e.g. , with Af and Af or equivalent glass combinations .
A sufficiently good approximation for determining the end reflection losses R can be obtained from the angle independent Fresnel formula : Af .
For phosphor to fiber and fiber to air surfaces , and assuming Af , we obtain Af percent .
This value may be reduced to 4.6 percent by means of a ( very thin ) glass layer of index 1.5 .
Hence , the Af factor for the output fiber coupler is Af .
As the index of refraction of photosensitive surfaces of the SbCs-type lies around 2 , the Fresnel losses at the fiber-photocathode interface are about 0.5 percent and the Af factor for the interstage coupler is 0.95 .
It might be anticipated that multiple coatings will reduce end reflection losses even further .
The internal losses are due to absorption and the small but finite losses suffered in the numerous internal reflections due to deviations from the prescribed , cylindrical fiber cross-section and minute imperfections of the core-jacket interface .
These losses depend on fiber diameter and length , absorption coefficient , the mean value of the loss per internal reflection and last , but not least , on the angular distribution of the incident light .
Explicit expressions ( integral averages ) are given in the literature .
Lacking reliable data for some of the variables , we are relying on experimental data of about 20 percent internal losses for 1/4-inch long , small ( 5 - 10 M ) diameter fibers .
This relatively high value is probably due to the small fiber diameters increasing the number of internal reflections .
Since we are considering here relatively small diameter ( 1 - 1.5 inches ) fiber plates , their average thickness can be kept below 1/4 inch and their internal losses may be assumed as 15 percent ( per plate ) .
The packing efficiency , F.R. , of fiber plates did not receive much attention in the literature , probably as it is high for the larger fibers generally used , until rather recently .
For circular fibers in a closely packed hexagonal array , the packing efficiency is given by : Af where Af , and 0.906 is the ratio of the area of a circle to that of the circumscribed hexagon .
For the small diameter fibers now technically feasible and required for about 100 Af resolution , Af .
The cladding thickness is about 0.5 M , hence , Af and Af .
Thus , the efficiency **yt couplers is given by -- Af or approximately 50 percent each .
It must be remembered that the fiber plates replace a glass window and a ( mica ) membrane , in addition to an optical output lens system .
The efficiency Af of an Af lens at the magnification Af is : Af .
Neglecting absorption , the end losses of the coupling membrane and the output window Af would be 6 percent and 8 percent .
Thus , the combined efficiency of the elements replaced by the two fiber plates ( with a combined efficiency of 0.25 ) is 0.043 or about six times less than that of the two fiber plates .
Gain of fiber coupled image intensifiers
Including the brightness gain Af due to the Af area demagnification , the overall gain of a fiber coupled double stage image intensifier is : Af .
It is obvious that the careful choice of photocathode which maximizes Af for a given input E ( in the case of the second stage , for the first phosphor screen emission ) is very important .
The same consideration should govern the choice of the second-stage phosphor screen for matching with the spectral sensitivity of the ultimate sensor ( e.g. , photographic emulsion ) .
We have evaluated the `` matching integrals '' for two types of photocathodes ( S-11 and S-20 ) and three types of light input .
The input light distributions considered are P-11 and P-20 phosphor emission and the so-called `` night light '' ( N.L. ) as given by H.W. Babcock and J. J. Johnson .
The integrals ( in units ) are listed in table 14-1 , below .
Theoretical discussion of paraxial device resolution
resolution limitations in a single stage
The resolution limitations for a single stage are given by the inherent resolution of the electron optical system as well as the resolution capabilities of the cathodoluminescent viewing screen .
The resolution capabilities of an electrostatic system depend on both the choice of magnification and chromatic aberrations .
It has been stated previously that a minifying electrostatic system yields a lower resolution than a magnifying system or a system with unity magnification .
Furthermore , the chromatic aberrations depend on the chosen high voltage .
In general , a high anode voltage reduces chromatic aberrations and thus increases the obtainable resolution .
The luminous gain of the discussed tube was calculated from Eq. ( 6 ) for the 16 possible combinations of S-11 and S-20 photocathodes and P-11 and P-20 phosphor screens , for night light and P-20 light input .
( The P-20 input is of interest because it corresponds roughly to the light emission of conventional X-ray fluorescent screens ) .
The following efficiencies obtained from JEDEC and RCA specifications were used : Af
.
The following table ( 14-2 ) lists the ( luminous ) gain values computed according to Eq. ( 6 ) with Af .
The possibility of a space charge blowup of the screen crossover of the elementary electron bundles has been pointed out .
It is obvious that such an influence can only be expected in the final stage of an image intensifier at rather high output levels .
Space charge influences will also decrease at increased voltages .
Electrostatic systems of the pseudo-symmetric type have been tested for resolution capabilities by applying electronography .
A resolution of 70 - 80 line-pairs per millimeter appears to be feasible .
The inherent resolution of a cathodoluminescent phosphor screen decreases with increasingly aggregate thickness ( with increasing anode voltage ) , decreases with decreasing porosity ( thus the advantage of cathodophoretic phosphor deposition ) and might be impaired by the normally used aluminum mirror .
Thus , in general , elementary light optical effects , light scatter , and electron scatter determine the obtainable resolution limit .
It should be noted that photoluminescence , due to `` Bremsstrahlung '' generated within the viewing screen by electron impact , appears to be important only if anode voltages in excess of 30 KV are utilized .
It has been stated that settled cathodoluminescent phosphor screens may have a limiting resolution of 60 Af at high voltage values of approximately 20 Aj .
For the further discussion , we shall thus assume an electron optical resolution of 80 Af and phosphor screen resolution of 60 Af .
The set of all decisions is called the operating policy or , more simply , the policy .
An optimal policy is one which in some sense gets the best out of the process as a whole by maximizing the value of the product .
There are thus three components to an optimal design problem : ( 1 )
The specification of the state of the process stream ; ;
( 2 )
The specification of the operating variables and the transformation they effect ; ;
( 3 )
The specification of the objective function of which the optimization is desired .
For a chemical process the first of these might involve the concentrations of the different chemical species , and the temperature or pressure of the stream .
For the second we might have to choose the volume of reactor or amount of cooling to be supplied ; ;
the way in which the transformation of state depends on the operating variables for the main types of reactors is discussed in the next chapter .
The objective function is some measure of the increase in value of the stream by processing ; ;
it is the subject of Chapter 4 .
The essential characteristic of an optimal policy when the state of the stream is transformed in a sequence of stages with no feedback was first isolated by Bellman .
He recognized that whatever transformation may be effected in the first stage of an R-stage process , the remaining stages must use an optimal Af-stage policy with respect to the state resulting from the first stage , if there is to be any chance of optimizing the complete process .
Moreover , by systematically varying the operating conditions in the first stage and always using the optimal Af-stage policy for the remaining stages , we shall eventually find the optimal policy for all R stages .
Proceeding in this way , from one to two and from two to three stages , we may gradually build up the policy for any number .
At each step of the calculation the operating variables of only one stage need be varied .
To see how important this economy is , let us suppose that there are M operating variables at each stage and that the state is specified by N variables ; ;
then the search for the maximum at any one stage will require a number of operations of order Af ( where a is some number not unreasonably large ) .
To proceed from one stage to the next a sufficient number of feed states must be investigated to allow for interpolation ; ;
this number will be of the order of Af .
If , however , we are seeking the optimal R-stage policy for a given feed state , only one search for a maximum is required at the final step .
Thus a number of operations of the order of Af are required .
If all the operating variables were varied simultaneously , Af operations would be required to do the same job , and as R increases this increases very much more rapidly than the number of operations required by the dynamic program .
But even more important than this is the fact that the direct search by simultaneously varying all operating conditions has produced only one optimal policy , namely , that for the given feed state and R stages .
In contrast , the dynamic program produces this policy and a whole family of policies for any smaller number of stages .
If the problem is enlarged to require a complete coverage of feed states , Af operations are needed by the dynamic program and Af by the direct search .
But Af is vastly larger than R .
No optimism is more baseless than that which believes that the high speed of modern digital computers allows for use of the crudest of methods in searching out a result .
Suppose that Af , and that the average operation requires only Af sec. .
Then the dynamic program would require about a minute whereas the direct search would take more than three millennia ! !
The principle of optimality thus brings a vital organization into the search for the optimal policy of a multistage decision process .
Bellman ( 1957 ) has annunciated in the following terms :
`` An optimal policy has the property that whatever the initial state and initial decision are , the remaining decisions must constitute an optimal policy with respect to the state resulting from the first decision '' .
This is the principle which we will invoke in every case to set up a functional equation .
It appears in a form that is admirably suited to the powers of the digital computer .
At the same time , every device that can be employed to reduce the number of variables is of the greatest value , and it is one of the attractive features of dynamic programming that room is left for ingenuity in using the special features of the problem to this end .
2.2 the discrete deterministic process
Consider the process illustrated in Fig. 2.1 , consisting of R distinct stages .
These will be numbered in the direction opposite to the flow of the process stream , so that stage R is the T stage from the end .
Let the state of the stream leaving stage R be denoted by a vector Af and the operating variables of stage R by Af .
Thus Af denotes the state of the feed to the R-stage process , and Af the state of the product from the last stage .
Each stage transforms the state Af of its feed to the state Af in a way that depends on the operating variables Af .
We write this Af .
This transformation is uniquely determined by Af and we therefore speak of the process as deterministic .
In practical situations there will be restrictions on the admissible operating conditions , and we regard the vectors as belonging to a fixed and bounded set S .
The set of vectors Af constitutes the operating policy or , more briefly , the policy , and a policy is admissible if all the Af belong to S .
When the policy has been chosen , the state of the product can be obtained from the state of the feed by repeated application of the transformation ( 1 ) ; ;
thus Af .
The objective function , which is to be maximized , is some function , usually piecewise continuous , of the product state .
Let this be denoted by Af .
An optimal policy is an admissible policy Af which maximizes the objective function P .
The policy may not be unique but the maximum value of P certainly is , and once the policy is specified this maximum can be calculated by ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) as a function of the feed state Af .
Let Af where the maximization is over all admissible policies Af .
When it is necessary to be specific we say that the optimal policy is an optimal R-stage policy with respect to the feed state Af .
For any choice of admissible policy Af in the first stage , the state of the stream leaving this stage is given by Af .
This is the feed state of the subsequent Af stages which , according to the principle of optimality , must use an optimal Af-stage policy with respect to this state .
This will result in a value Af of the objective function , and when Af is chosen correctly this will give Af , the maximum of the objective function .
Thus Af where the maximization is over all admissible policies Af , and Af is related to Af by ( 5 ) .
The sequence of equations ( 6 ) can be solved for Af when Af is known , and clearly Af , the maximization being over all admissible Af .
The set of equations ( 5 ) , ( 6 ) , and the starting equation ( 7 ) is of a recursive type well suited to programming on the digital computer .
In finding the optimal R-stage policy from that of Af stages , only the function Af is needed .
When Af has been found it may be transferred into the storage location of Af and the whole calculation repeated .
We also see how the results may be presented , although if n , the number of state variables , is large any tabulation will become cumbersome .
A table or set of tables may be set out as in Table 2.1 .
To extract the optimal R-stage policy with respect to the feed state Af , we enter section R of this table at the state Af and find immediately from the last column the maximum value of the objective function .
In the third column is given the optimal policy for stage R , and in the fourth , the resulting state of the stream when this policy is used .
Since by the principle of optimality the remaining stages use an optimal Af-stage policy with respect to Af , we may enter section Af of the table at this state Af and read off the optimal policy for stage Af and the resulting state Af .
Proceeding in this way up the table we extract the complete optimal policy and , if it is desired , we can check on Af by evaluating Af at the last stage .
It may be that the objective function depends not only on Af but also on Af , as when the cost of the operating policy is considered .
A moment's reflection shows that the above algorithm and presentation work equally well in this case .
A form of objective function that we shall often have occasion to consider is Af .
Here P represents the value of the stream in state P and Q the cost of operating the stage with conditions Q .
Hence P is the increase in value of the stream minus the cost of operation , that is , the net profit .
If Af denotes the net profit from stage R and Af , then the principle of optimality gives Af .
This sequence of equations may be started with the remark that with no process Af there is no profit , i.e. , Af .
2.3 the discrete stochastic process
The process in which the outcome of any one stage is known only statistically is also of interest , although for chemical reactor design it is not as important as the deterministic process .
In this case the stage R operating with conditions Af transforms the state of the stream from Af to Af , but only the probability distribution of Af is known .
This is specified by a distribution function Af such that the probability that Af lies in some region D of the stage space is Af .
We cannot now speak of maximizing the value of the objective function , since this function is now known only in a probabilistic sense .
We can , however , maximize its expected value .
For a single stage we may define Af where the maximization is by choice of Af .
We thus have an optimal policy which maximizes the expected value of the objective function for a given Af .
If we consider a process in which the outcome of one stage is known before passage to the next , then the principle of optimality shows that the policy in subsequent stages should be optimal with respect to the outcome of the first .
Then Af , the maximization being over all admissible Af and the integration over the whole of stage space .
The type of presentation of results used in the deterministic process may be used here , except that now the fourth column is redundant .
The third column gives the optimal policy , but we must wait to see the outcome of stage R and enter the preceding section of the table at this state .
The discussion of the optimal policy when the outcome of one stage is not known before passing to the next is a very much more difficult matter .
2.4 the continuous deterministic process
In many cases it is not possible to divide the process into a finite number of discrete stages , since the state of the stream is transformed in a continuous manner through the process .
We replace r , the number of the stage from the end of the process , by t , a continuous variable which measures the `` distance '' of the point considered from the end of the process .
The word distance is used here in a rather general sense ; ;
it may in fact be the time that will elapse before the end of the process .
If T is the total `` length '' of the process , its feed state may be denoted by a vector p(T) and the product state by p(Q) .
P denotes the state at any point T and Q the vector of operating variables there .
A gyro-stabilized platform system , using restrained gyros , is well suited for automatic leveling because of the characteristics of the gyro-platform-servo combination .
The restrained gyro-stabilized platform with reasonable response characteristics operates with an approximate equation of motion , neglecting transient effects , as follows : Af where U is a torque applied about the output axis of the controlling gyro .
The platform angle **yf is the angle about which the gyro is controlling .
This is normally termed the gyro input axis , 90-degrees away from the gyro output or **yj axis .
The gyro angular momentum is defined by H .
Thus if the gyro and platform-controller combination maintains the platform with zero angular deviation about the **yf axis , the system can be rotated with an angular velocity Af if a torque is supplied to the gyro output axis Aj .
It is assumed that the gyros are designed with electrical torquers so that a torque can be applied about their output axes .
In the system shown in Fig. 7-1 , the accelerometer output is amplified and the resulting voltage is applied to the gyro output-axis torquer .
This torque causes the entire system to rotate about the **yf axis , since the response to Af .
If the polarities are correct , the platform rotates in such a direction as to reduce the accelerometer output to zero .
As the accelerometer output is decreasing , the torque applied to the gyro output axis decreases and , therefore , the rate decreases .
Finally , when the accelerometer output is zero , the entire system remains stationary , and the platform is , by definition , leveled .
A mathematical block diagram for the leveling system is shown in Fig. 7-2 .
The platform is initially off level by the angle Aj .
The angle generated by the platform servo **yf multiplied by G is the effective acceleration acting on the accelerometer .
Af is the scale factor of the accelerometer ( Af ) .
The voltage Af is amplified by Af and applied to the gyro torquer with scale factor Af .
Finally , the gyro-stabilized platform characteristic is represented by Af .
The system as indicated in Fig. 7-2 is fundamental and simple because the transient effects of both the platform servo and the accelerometer have been neglected .
With these factors included , an upper limit is placed on the allowable loop gain by stability considerations .
In this type of system , a high loop gain is desirable because it provides a fast response time .
When the frequency response characteristics of practical components are considered , their effect on stability does not present the most serious limit on the system loop gain .
The time required for the system to reach a level position is approximately inversely proportional to the servo loop gain .
In addition , the cutoff frequency for input accelerations is approximately proportional to the servo loop gain ; ;
i.e. , high loop gain causes the system to respond to horizontal components of accelerations .
This problem usually determines the lower limit of loop gain rather than response time .
It must be noticed in Fig. 7-1 that the accelerometer responds to any input acceleration .
The equation relating input acceleration to output platform angle is Af .
In practice , the preflight leveling process takes place with the system mounted in the airframe .
When the system is arranged for automatic leveling , the platform angles respond to any horizontal components of acceleration acting on the accelerometers .
There are many such components of acceleration present due to the effect of wind gusts , engine noise , turbulence around the vehicle , etc. .
One of the greatest problems associated with automatic leveling is establishing a true level in the presence of high-level acceleration noise .
One solution to the problem is to operate with a low loop gain and to include low-pass filters .
This technique causes the system to respond only to low frequency acceleration components such as the platform tilt .
Since a lower loop gain and low-pass filtering increases the response time , a practical compromise must be reached .
One of the most desirable solutions is achieved by the use of a non-linear amplifier for Af .
The amplifier is designed so that its gain is large for accelerometer signals above a certain threshold level .
Below this level , the amplifier gain Af is proportional and is of small value , in order to provide adequate noise filtering .
The effect is that the platform returns from an off-level position at a rapid rate until it is nearly level , at which point the platform is controlled by a proportional servo with low enough frequency response so that the noise has little effect on the leveling process .
When the system is on automatic leveling , the gyro drift is canceled by the output of the leveling system ( amplifier Af ) .
The platform actually tilts off level so that the accelerometer output , when amplified by Af , will supply the correct current to the gyro torquer to cancel the gyro drift .
The amount of platform dip required depends upon the scale factors of the system .
7-3 .
Practical leveling considerations .
The automatic leveling system described in this section is readily adaptable to a gyro-stabilized platform consisting of three integrating gyros .
The system requires some switching of flight equipment circuits .
However , the leveling operation can be maintained and controlled remotely with no mechanical or optical contact with the platform .
This leveling system will hold the platform on-level , automatically , as long as the system is actuated .
A useful by-product of this system is that the information necessary to set the gyro drift biases is available from the currents necessary to hold the system in level .
The leveling process can be accomplished manually , and the results are as satisfactory as those obtained with automatic equipment .
The process consists in turning the platform manually until the outputs of both accelerometers are zero .
The turning is accomplished by applying voltage to the gyro torquers described above .
In brief , the human replaces amplifier Af in Figs. 7-1 and 7-2 .
Manual leveling requires an appropriate display of the accelerometer outputs .
If high accuracy is required in preflight leveling , it is usually necessary to integrate or doubly integrate the accelerometer outputs ( this also minimizes the noise problem ) .
With integration , the effect of a small acceleration ( or small platform tilt angle ) can be seen after a time .
However , skill is required on the part of an operator to level a platform to any degree of accuracy .
Also , it requires more time as compared to the automatic approach .
Manual leveling is inconvenient if the platform must be maintained accurately level for any prolonged period of time .
The operator must continually supply the correct amount of turning current to the gyro torquers so that the effect of gyro drift is canceled .
This process is especially difficult since gyro drifting is typically random .
7-4 .
Platform heading .
Platform heading consists of orienting the sensitive axis of the accelerometers parallel to the desired coordinate system of the navigator .
In simpler terms , it amounts to pointing the platform in the proper direction .
For purely inertial navigators , two techniques are available to accomplish the platform heading : Use of external or surveying equipment to establish proper heading ; ;
Use of the characteristics of the platform components for an indication of true heading .
The choice of the heading technique is dependent upon the accuracy requirements , field conditions , and the time available to accomplish the heading .
7-5 .
External determination of heading -- surveying technique .
With the gyro-stabilized platform leveled , it can be headed in the proper direction by using surveying techniques .
The platform accelerometers must be slightly modified for this procedure .
Before the accelerometers are mounted on the platform , the direction of their sensitive axis must be accurately determined .
A mirror is mounted on each accelerometer so that the plane of the mirror is perpendicular to the sensitive axis of the unit .
Transit .
A precision transit is set up so that it is aligned with respect to true north .
This can be done to a high degree of accuracy by existing surveying techniques .
With the transit set up , a mirror on one of the accelerometers is sighted and the platform is turned until it is aligned .
The sighting procedure includes the use of a fixture for the transit to project a beam of light , which is darkened by crossed hairs , on the accelerometer mirror .
When the platform is aligned , the reflected image of the crossed hairs can be seen exactly superimposed upon the original crossed hairs .
The images can easily be aligned with a high degree of accuracy .
The platform is turned as required by supplying currents to the appropriate gyro torquers .
Although this technique is simple and satisfactory , one practical difficulty does exist : the direction of true north must be known for each launch point .
However , this difficulty is not too serious if it is realized that a surveying team can establish a true north base line with a few days' work .
In many installations , the inertial platform is raised off the ground a considerable height when it is mounted in the vehicle before flight .
With this situation , it is difficult to sight in on the platform with surveying equipment .
If the platform is not too high off the ground , a transit can be mounted on a stand to raise it up to the platform .
Obviously , the heading accuracy is lessened by such techniques since errors are introduced because of motion of the stand .
Autocollimator .
The transit can be replaced by an autocollimator .
This instrument provides an electrical signal proportional to the angular deviations of the platform and can be used to automatically hold the platform on true heading .
The electrical signal from the autocollimator is amplified and supplied to the Z-gyro torquer .
If the polarity is correct , the platform will turn until the heading error angle is zero .
Information is also available from this autocollimator system to set the drift bias for the Z-axis gyro .
If the Z gyro is drifting , a current generated by the autocollimator is delivered to the gyro torquer to cancel the drift .
If the drift error is systematic , it can be canceled with a bias circuit which can be arranged and adjusted to supply the required compensating current .
Electrical pickoffs .
It is possible to locate an angular electrical pickoff , which will indicate the angular deviation between the true heading direction and the platform .
Essentially , the stator or reference portion of the pickoff is established with respect to the true heading direction , and the platform is turned either manually or automatically until the angular electrical pickoff signal is reduced to zero .
7-6 .
Gyrocompass heading .
Gyrocompass alignment is an automatic heading system which depends upon the characteristic of one gyro to establish true heading .
For the case of a purely inertial autonavigator consisting of three restrained gyros , a coordinate system is used where the sensitive axis of the X accelerometer is parallel to the east-west direction at the base point , and the Y accelerometer sensitive axis is parallel to the north-south direction at the base point .
The accelerometers are mounted rigidly on the platform .
Thus , if one accelerometer is properly aligned , the other is also .
The input axis of the appropriate gyros are parallel to the sensitive direction of the accelerometers .
Figure 7-3 shows a platform system with the gyro vectors arranged as described above .
The platform is leveled and properly headed , so that the X-gyro input axis is parallel to the east-west direction and the Y-gyro input axis is parallel to the north-south direction .
The input axis of the X gyro , when pointing in the east-west direction , is always perpendicular to the spin axis of earth .
If the platform is not properly headed , the X-gyro input axis will see a component of the earth's rotation .
The sensing of this rotation by the X gyro can be utilized to direct the platform into proper heading .
In Fig. 7-4 , the input axis of the three-axis platform is shown at some point on the earth .
The point is at a latitude **yl , and the platform is at an error in heading east .
The earth is spinning at an angular velocity **zq equal to one revolution per 24 hr. .
When the platform is level , **ye is a rotation about the Z axis of the platform Af .
Since the earth is rotating and the unleveled gyro-stabilized platform is fixed with respect to a reference in space , an observer on the earth will see the platform rotating ( with respect to the earth ) .
Thirty-three
Scotty did not go back to school .
His parents talked seriously and lengthily to their own doctor and to a specialist at the University Hospital -- Mr. McKinley was entitled to a discount for members of his family -- and it was decided it would be best for him to take the remainder of the term off , spend a lot of time in bed and , for the rest , do pretty much as he chose -- provided , of course , he chose to do nothing too exciting or too debilitating .
His teacher and his school principal were conferred with and everyone agreed that , if he kept up with a certain amount of work at home , there was little danger of his losing a term .
Scotty accepted the decision with indifference and did not enter the arguments .
He was discharged from the hospital after a two-day checkup and he and his parents had what Mr. McKinley described as a `` celebration lunch '' at the cafeteria on the campus .
Rachel wore a smart hat and , because she had been warned recently about smoking , puffed at her cigarettes through a long ivory holder stained with lipstick .
Scotty's father sat sprawled in his chair , angular , alert as a cricket , looking about at the huge stainless-steel appointments of the room with an expression of proprietorship .
Teachers -- men who wore brown suits and had gray hair and pleasant smiles -- came to their table to talk shop and to be introduced to Scotty and Rachel .
Rachel was polite , Scotty indifferent .
They ate the cafeteria food with its orange sauces and Scotty gazed without interest at his food , the teachers , the heroic baronial windows , and the bright ranks of college banners .
His father tried to make the food a topic .
`` The blueberry pie is good , Scotty .
I recommend it '' .
He looked at his son , his face worried .
Scotty murmured , `` No , thanks '' , so softly his father had to bend his gaunt height across the table and turn a round brown ear to him .
Scotty regarded the ear and the grizzled hair around it with a moment of interest .
He said more loudly , `` I'm full , old Pop '' .
He had eaten almost nothing on the crested , three-sectioned plate and had drunk about half the milk in its paper container .
`` He's all right , Craig '' , Rachel said .
`` I can fix him something later in the afternoon when we get home '' .
Since his seizure , Scotty had had little appetite ; ;
yet his changed appearance , surprisingly , was one of plumpness .
His face was fuller ; ;
his lips and the usually sharp lines of his jaw had become swollen-looking .
He breathed now with his mouth open , showing a whitely curving section of lower teeth ; ;
he kept his eyes , with their puffed blurred lids , always lowered , though not , apparently , focusing .
Even his neck seemed thicker and , therefore , shorter .
His hands , which had been as quick as a pair of fluttering birds , were now neither active nor really relaxed .
They lay on his lap , palms up , stiffly motionless , the tapered fingers a little thick at the joints .
Altogether he had , since the seizure , the appearance of a boy who overindulged in food and took no exercise .
He looked lazy , spoiled , a little querulous .
Rachel had little to say .
She greeted her husband's colleagues with smiling politeness , offering nothing .
Mr. McKinley , for all his sprawling and his easy familiarity , was completely alert to his son , eyes always on the still face , jumping to anticipate Scotty's desires .
It was a strained , silent lunch .
Rachel said , `` I'd better get him to bed '' .
The doctors had suggested Scotty remain most of every afternoon in bed until he was stronger .
Since Mr. McKinley had to give a lecture , Rachel and Scotty drove home alone in the Plymouth .
They did not speak much .
Scotty gazed out at ugly gray slums and said softly , `` Look at those stupid kids '' .
It was a Negro section of peeling row houses , store-front churches and ragged children .
Rachel had to bend toward Scotty and ask him to repeat .
He said , `` Nothing '' .
And then : `` There are lots of kids around here '' .
Scotty looked at the children , his mouth slightly opened , his eyes dull .
He felt tired and full and calm .
Thirty-four
the days seemed short , perhaps because his routine was , each day , almost the same .
He rose late and went down in his bathrobe and slippers to have breakfast either alone or with Rachel .
Virginia treated him with attention and tried to tempt his appetite with special food : biscuits , cookies , candies -- the result of devoted hours in the tiled kitchen .
She would hover over him and , looking like her brother , anxiously watch the progress of Scotty's fork or spoon .
`` You don't eat enough , honey .
Try to get that down '' .
Rachel , observing , would say , `` He has to rediscover his own capacity .
It'll take time '' .
Virginia and Rachel talked to each other quietly now , as allies who are political rather than natural might in a war atmosphere .
Both watched Scotty constantly , Rachel without seeming to , Virginia openly , her eyes filled with concern .
Scotty was neutral .
He did not resent their supervision or Virginia's sometimes tiring sympathy .
He ate what he felt like , slept as much or as little as he pleased , and moved about the draughty rooms of the house , when he was not in bed , with slow , dubious steps , like an elderly tourist in a cathedral .
His energy was gone .
He was able , now , to sit for hours in a chair in the living room and stare out at the bleak yard without moving .
His hands lay loosely , yet stiffly -- they were like wax hands : almost lifelike , not quite -- folded in his lap ; ;
his mouth hung slightly open .
When he was asked a question or addressed in such a way that some response was inescapable , he would answer ; ;
if , as often happened , he had to repeat because he had spoken too softly , he would repeat his words in the same way , without emphasis or impatience , only a little louder .
He had not mentioned Kate .
He had not even thought about her much except once or twice at night in bed when his slowly ranging thoughts would abruptly , almost accidentally , encounter her .
At these times he felt a kind of pain in his upper chest , but it was an objective pain , in no way different from others in intensity and not different in kind ; ;
it was like the bandaged wound on the back of his head which occasionally throbbed ; ;
it was merely another part of his weakness .
He was calm , drugged , and lazy .
He did not care .
Rachel mentioned Kate .
She said , `` I notice the girl from across the street hasn't bothered to phone or visit '' .
Scotty said , `` That's all right .
Kate's all right '' .
He thought about it briefly , then deliberately turned the talk to something else .
Once , sitting at the front window in his parents' room , he saw Kate come out of her house .
She was with Elizabeth .
They were far off and looked tiny .
The heavy branches in his front yard would hide and then reveal them .
They turned at the bottom of Kate's steps and moved off in the direction of the park .
He thought he saw -- it awakened and , for a moment , interested him -- that Elizabeth held a leash in her hand and that a round fuzzy puppy was on the end of the leash .
Then they disappeared and Scotty got up and went into his own room and got into bed .
By the time he was under the covers he had forgotten about seeing Kate .
The doctor , since Scotty was no longer allowed to make his regular trips into town to see him , came often and informally to the house .
He would sit , slim-waisted and spare , on the edge of Scotty's bed , his legs crossed so elaborately that the crossed foot could tap the floor .
Scotty did not mind the doctor's unsmiling teasing as he used to .
`` Husky young man '' , he said with mock distaste .
`` I imagine you're always battling in school '' .
`` I don't go to school any more '' .
`` Pardon '' ? ?
The doctor had to bend close to hear ; ;
his delicate hand , as veined as a moth's wing , rested absently on Scotty's chest .
Scotty said the same words more loudly .
`` Oh .
Well , we're taking a little vacation , that's all '' .
He turned unsmilingly to Rachel .
`` I think by the end of next week he could get out in the air a little .
He could now but the weakness is very definite ; ;
it would exhaust him further and unnecessarily .
He'll be stronger soon '' .
His stethoscope was on the table by Scotty's bed and he picked it up and wagged it at Scotty .
He said fussily , `` Just keep the cap on those strong emotions '' .
The stethoscope glinted silver in the darkening room .
`` I'll drop by again in a few days '' .
Rachel stayed on after the doctor had gone .
She smoothed the covers on Scotty's bed and picked things up from the floor .
She did not touch him .
Scotty watched with disinterest .
He did not speak .
He had no desire to .
She said , `` Do you think you'll miss school '' ? ?
He had noticed how formal and irritably exact Rachel had grown .
He did not care .
He felt her irritability did not concern him , yet he knew he would not care even if it did .
He shook his head .
`` We've had any number of calls about you .
You could win a popularity contest at that school without any trouble .
Miss Estherson called twice .
She wants to pay you a visit .
She says the children miss you .
Apparently you were the light of their lives '' .
Scotty shrugged slightly .
Rachel came close to the bed , bent as if she would kiss him , then moved away .
She was frowning .
`` That doctor annoys me '' .
She seemed to speak to herself .
`` Do you suppose his self-consciousness is characteristic of the new Negro professionals or merely of doctors in general '' ? ?
She turned to him again .
`` Well , Mrs. Charles -- Sally -- has phoned too .
She was very worried '' .
Rachel's tone was dry .
`` She didn't really say '' -- She glanced away at the floor , then swooped gracefully and picked up one of Scotty's slippers .
`` I mean , do you feel like seeing Kate '' ? ?
Scotty said , `` I don't know '' .
It was true .
He did not .
There was the slight pain , but it was no different from the throbbing in his head .
`` Well , there's time , in any case .
We'll wait till you're stronger and then talk about it '' .
She put the slipper neatly by its mate at the foot of the bed .
Scotty said , `` Okay '' .
This time Rachel kissed him lightly on the forehead .
Scotty was pleased .
His father was a constant visitor .
Scotty would hear the front door in the evening and then his father's deep slow voice ; ;
it floated up the stairs .
`` How's Scotty '' ? ?
And Rachel's or Virginia's reply : `` better .
He's getting plenty of rest '' .
`` Is his appetite improved '' ? ?
Or : `` Does he get exercise '' ? ?
The exchange was almost invariable , and Scotty , in his bed , could hear every word of it .
He never smiled .
It required an energy he no longer possessed to be satirical about his father .
His father would come upstairs and stand self-consciously at the foot of the bed and look at his son .
After a pause , during which he studied Scotty's face as if Scotty were not there and could not study him too , Mr. McKinley would ask the same questions he had asked downstairs .
Scotty would reply softly and his father , apologetically , would ask him to repeat .
`` I'm eating more '' , he would say .
Or : `` I walk around the house a lot '' .
`` Perhaps you should get out a little '' .
`` I'm not supposed to yet '' .
He was not irritated .
He did not mind the useless , kindly questions .
He looked at the lined face with vague interest ; ;
he felt he was noting it , as if it were something he might think about when he grew stronger .
Mr. McKinley examined everything with critical care , seeking something material to blame for his son's illness .
`` Have you got enough blankets '' ? ?
And another time , without accusation : `` You never wore that scarf I bought you '' .
Where their sharp edges seemed restless as sea waves thrusting themselves upward in angry motion , Papa-san sat glacier-like , his smooth solidity , his very immobility defying all the turmoil about him .
`` Our objective '' , the colonel had said that day of the briefing , `` is Papa-san '' .
There the objective sat , brooding over all .
Gouge , burn , blast , insult it as they would , could anyone really take Papa-san ? ?
Between the ponderous hulk and himself , in the valley over which Papa-san reigned , men had hidden high explosives , booby traps , and mines .
The raped valley was a pregnant womb awaiting abortion .
On the forward slope in front of his own post stretched two rows of barbed wire .
At the slope's base coils of concertina stretched out of eye range like a wild tangle of children's hoops , stopped simultaneously , weirdly poised as if awaiting the magic of the child's touch to start them all rolling again .
Closer still , regular barricades of barbed wire hung on timber supports .
Was it all vain labor ? ?
Who would clean up the mess when the war was over ? ?
Smiling at his quixotic thoughts , Warren turned back from the opening and lit a cigarette before sitting down .
Tonight a group of men , tomorrow night he himself , would go out there somewhere and wait .
If he were to go with White , he would be out there two days , not just listening in the dark at some point between here and Papa-san , but moving ever deeper into enemy land -- behind Papa-san -- itself .
Was this what he had expected ? ?
He hadn't realized that there would be so much time to think , so many lulls .
Somehow he had forgotten what he must have been told , that combat was an intermittent activity .
Now he knew that the moment illuminated by the vision on the train would have to be approached .
It could take place tomorrow night , or it might occur months from now .
There was just too much time .
Time to become afraid .
White's suggestion flattered , but he did not like the identity .
He did not spill over with hatred for the enemy .
He hadn't even seen him yet
Pressing his cigarette out in the earth , Warren walked to the slit and scanned the jagged hills .
He saw no life , but still stood there for a time peering at the unlovely hills , his gaze continually returning to Papa-san .
He had come here in order to test himself .
While most of his beliefs were still unsettled , he knew that he did not believe in killing .
Yet , he was here .
He had come because he could not live out his life feeling that he had been a coward .
There were ten men on the patrol which Sergeant Prevot led out that next night .
The beaming ROK was carrying a thirty-caliber machine gun ; ;
another man lugged the tripod and a box of ammunition .
Warren and White each carried , in addition to their own weapons and ammo , a box of ammo for the ROK's machine gun .
Others carried extra clips for the Browning Automatic Rifle , which was in the hands of a little Mexican named Martinez .
Prevot had briefed the two new men that afternoon .
`` We just sit quiet and wait '' , Prevot had said .
`` Be sure the man nearest you is awake .
If Joe doesn't show up , we'll all be back here at 0600 hours .
Otherwise , we hold a reception .
Then we pull out under our mortar and artillery cover , but nobody pulls out until I say so .
Remember what I said about going out to get anybody left behind ? ?
That still holds .
We bring back all dead and wounded '' .
At 2130 hours they had passed through the barbed wire at the point of departure .
Then began the journey through their own mine fields .
Mines .
Ours were kinder than theirs , some said .
They set bouncing betties to jump and explode at testicle level while we more mercifully had them go off at the head .
Mines .
Big ones and little .
The crude wooden boxes of the enemy , our nicely turned gray metal disks .
But theirs defied the detectors .
Mines .
A foot misplaced , a leg missing .
Mines .
All sizes : big ones , some wired to set off a whole field , little ones , hand grenade size .
Booby traps to fill the head with chunks of metal .
Warren tried to shake off the jumble of his fears by looking at the sky .
It was dark .
Prevot had said that the searchlights would be bounced off the clouds at 2230 hours , `` which gives us time to get settled in position '' .
Because they were new men and to be sure that they didn't get lost , Prevot had placed Warren and White in the center of the patrol as it filed out .
His eyes now fixed on White's solid figure , Warren could hear behind him the tread of another .
He could also hear the stream which he had seen from his position .
They were going to follow it for part of their journey .
`` It's safe '' , Prevot had said , `` and it provides cover for our noise '' .
Soon they were picking their way along the edge of the stream which glowed in the night .
On their right rose the embankment covered with brush and trees .
If a branch extended out too far , each man held it back for the next , and if they met a low overhang , each warned the other .
Thus , stealthily they advanced upstream ; ;
then they turned to the right , climbed the embankment , and walked into the valley again .
There was no cover here , only grass sighing against pant-legs .
And with each sigh , like a whip in the hand of an expert , the grass stripped something from Warren .
The gentle whir of each footstep left him more naked than before , until he felt his unprotected flesh tremble , chilled by each new sound .
The shapes of the men ahead of him lacked solidity , as if the whip had stripped them of their very flesh .
The dark forms moved like mourners on some nocturnal pilgrimage , their dirge unsung for want of vocal chords .
The warped , broken trees in the valley assumed wraith-like shapes .
Clumps of brush that they passed were so many enchained demons straining in anger to tear and gnaw on his bones .
Looming over all , Papa-san leered down at him , threatening a hundred hidden malevolencies .
Off in the distance a searchlight flashed on , its beam slashing the sky .
The sharp ray was absorbed by a cloud , then reflected to the earth in a softer , diffused radiance .
Somewhere over there another patrol had need of light .
Warren thought of all the men out that night who , like himself , had left their protective ridge and -- fear working at their guts -- picked their way into the area beyond .
From the east to the west coast of the Korean peninsula was a strip of land in which fear-filled men were at that same moment furtively crawling through the night , sitting in sweaty anticipation of any movement or sound , or shouting amidst confused rifle flashes and muzzle blasts .
White's arm went up and Warren raised his own .
The patrol was stopping .
Prevot came up `` .
Take that spot over there '' , he whispered , pointing to a small clump of blackness .
`` Give me your machine gun ammo '' .
Warren handed him the metal box and Prevot quietly disappeared down the line .
Lying in the grass behind the brush clump , Warren looked about .
The others likewise had hidden themselves in the grass and the brush .
Over his shoulder he could see Prevot with the machine gun crew .
Even at this short distance they were only vague shapes , setting up the machine gun on a small knoll so that it could fire above the heads of the rest of the patrol .
Warren eased his rifle's safety off and gently , slowly sneaked another clip of ammunition from one of the cloth bandoleers that marked the upper part of his body with an Aj .
This he placed within quick reach .
The walk and his fears had served to overheat him and his sweaty armpits cooled at the touch of the night air .
Although the armored vest fitted the upper part of his body snugly , he felt no security .
Figures seemed to crouch in the surrounding dark ; ;
in the distance he saw a band of men who seemed to advance and retreat even as he watched .
Certain this menace was only imaginary , he yet stared in fascinated horror , his hand sticky against the stock of his weapon .
He was aware of insistent inner beatings , as if prisoners within sought release from his rigid body .
Above , the glowing ivory baton of their searchlight pointed at the clouds , diluting the valley's dark to a pallid light .
Then the figures which held his attention became a group of shattered trees , standing like the grotesques of a medieval damnation scene .
Even so , he could not ease the tension of his body ; ;
the rough surface of the earth itself seemed to resist every attempt on his part to relax .
Sensing the unseen presence of the other men in the patrol , he felt mutely united to these nine near-strangers sharing this pinpoint of being with him .
He sensed something precious in the perilous moment , something akin to the knowledge gained on his bicycle trip through the French countryside , a knowledge imprisoned in speechlessness .
-- In France he had puzzled the meaning of the great stone monuments men had thrown up to the sky , and always as he wandered , he felt a stranger to their exultation .
They were poems in a strange language , of which he could barely touch a meaning -- enough to make his being ache with the desire for the fullness he sensed there .
Brittany , that stone-gray mystery through which he traveled for thirty days , sleeping in the barns of farmers or alongside roads , had worked some subtle change in him , he knew , and it was in Brittany that he had met Pierre .
Pierre had no hands ; ;
they had been severed at the wrists .
With leather cups fitted in his handlebars , he steered his bicycle .
He and Warren had traveled together for four days .
They visited the shipyards at Brest and Pierre had to sign the register , vouching for the integrity of the visiting foreigner .
He took the pen in his stumps and began to write .
`` Wait ! !
Wait '' ! !
Cried the guard who ran from the hut to shout to other men standing about outside .
They crowded the small room and peered over one another's shoulders to watch the handless man write his name in the book .
`` C'est formidable '' , they exclaimed .
`` Mais , oui .
C'est merveilleux '' .
And then the questions came , eager , interested questions , and many compliments on his having overcome his infirmity .
`` Doesn't it ever bother you '' , Warren had asked , `` to have people always asking you about your hands '' ? ?
`` Oh , the French are a very curious people '' , Pierre had laughed .
`` They are also honest seekers after truth .
Now the English are painfully silent about my missing hands .
They refuse to mention or to notice that they are not there .
The Americans , like yourself , take the fact for granted , try to be helpful , but don't ask questions .
I'm used to all three , but I think the French have the healthiest attitude '' .
That was the day that Pierre had told Warren about the Abbey of Solesmes .
`` You are looking tired and there you can rest .
It will be good for you .
I think , too '' , he said , his dark eyes mischievous , `` that you will find there some clue to the secret of the cathedrals about which you have spoken '' .
Within two weeks Warren was ringing the bell at the abbey gate .
The monk who opened the door immediately calmed his worries about his reception : `` I speak English '' , the old man said , `` but I do not hear it very well '' .
He smiled and stuck a large finger with white hairs sprouting on it into his ear as though that might help .
Smiling at Warren's protestations , the old monk took his grip from him and led him down a corridor to a small parlor .
`` Will you please wait in here .
Mickie sat over his second whisky-on-the-rocks in a little bar next to the funeral parlor on Pennsylvania Avenue .
Al's Little Cafe was small , dark , narrow , and filled with the mingled scent of beer , tobacco smoke , and Italian cooking .
Hanging over the bar was an oil painting of a nude Al had accepted from a student at the Corcoran Gallery who needed to eat and drink and was broke .
The nude was small and black-haired and elfin , and was called `` Eloise '' .
This was one place where Moonan could go for a drink in a back booth without anyone noticing him , or at least coming up and hanging around and wanting to know all the low-down .
The other patrons were taxi drivers and art students and small shopkeepers .
The reporters had not yet discovered that this was his hideaway .
His friend Jane was with him .
She was wise enough to realize a man could be good company even if he did weigh too much and didn't own the mint .
She was the widow of a writer who had died in an airplane crash , and Mickie had found her a job as head of the historical section of the Treasury .
This meant sorting out press clippings and the like .
Jane sat receptive and interested .
Mickie had a pleasant glow as he said , `` You see , both of them , I mean the President and Jeff Lawrence , are romantics .
A romantic is one who thinks the world is divinely inspired and all he has to do is find the right key , and then divine justice and altruism will appear .
It's like focusing a camera ; ;
the distant ship isn't there until you get the focus .
You know what I'm talking about .
I'm sure all girls feel this way about men until they live with them .
`` But when it comes to war , the Colonel knows what it is and Jeff doesn't .
Mr. Christiansen knows that a soldier will get the Distinguished Service Medal for conduct that would land him in prison for life or the electric chair as a civilian .
He had a mean , unbroken sheer bastard in his outfit , and someone invented the name Trig for him .
That's to say , he was trigger happy .
He'd shoot at anything if it was the rear end of a horse or his own sentry .
He was a wiry , inscrutable , silent country boy from the red clay of rural Alabama , and he spoke with the broad drawl that others normally make fun of .
But not in front of Trig .
I heard of some that tried it back in the States , and he'd knock them clear across the room .
There'd been a pretty bad incident back at the Marine base .
A New York kid , a refugee from one of the Harlem gangs , made fun of Trig's accent , and drew a knife .
Before the fight was over , the Harlem boy had a concussion and Trig was cut up badly .
They caught Trig stealing liquor from the officers' mess , and he got a couple of girls in trouble .
The fear of punishment just didn't bother him .
It wasn't there .
It was left out of him at birth .
This is why he made such a magnificent soldier .
He wasn't troubled with the ordinary , rank-and-file fear that overcomes and paralyzes and sends individual soldiers and whole companies under fire running in panic .
It just didn't occur to Trig that anything serious would happen to him .
Do you get the picture of the kind of fellow he was '' ? ?
Jane nodded with a pleasant smile .
`` All right .
There was a sniper's nest in a mountain cave , and it was picking off our men with devilish accuracy .
The Colonel ordered that it be wiped out , and I suggested , ' You ask for volunteers , and promise each man on the patrol a quart of whisky , ten dollars and a week-end pass to Davao .
Trig was one of the five volunteers .
The patrol snaked around in back of the cave , approached it from above and dropped in suddenly with wild howls .
You could hear them from our outpost .
There was a lot of shooting .
We knew the enemy was subdued , because a flare was fired as the signal .
So we hurried over .
Two of our men were killed , a third was wounded .
Trig and a very black colored boy from Detroit had killed or put out of action ten guerrillas by grenades and hand-to-hand fighting .
When we got there , Trig and the Negro were quarreling over possession of a gold crucifix around the neck of a wounded Filipino .
The colored boy had it , and Trig lunged at him with a knife and said , ' Give that to me , you black bastard .
We don't 'low nigras to walk on the same sidewalk with white men where I come from .
`` The Negro got a bad slice on his chest from the knife wound '' .
`` What did the Colonel do about the men '' ? ?
Jane asked in her placid , interested way .
Mickie laughed .
`` He recommended both of them for the DSM and the Detroit fellow for the Purple Heart , too , for a combat-inflicted wound .
So you see Mr. Christiansen knows what it's all about .
But not Jeff Lawrence .
When he was in the war , he was in Law or Supplies or something like that , and an old buddy of his told me he would come down on Sundays to the Pentagon and read the citations for medals -- just like the one we sent in for Trig -- and go away with a real glow .
These were heroes nine feet tall to him '' .
Jefferson Lawrence was alone at the small , perfectly appointed table by the window looking out over the river .
He had dinner and sat there over his coffee watching the winding pattern of traffic as it crossed the bridge and spread out like a serpent with two heads .
Beside him was Mrs. Dalloway .
He thought how this dainty , fragile older woman threading her way through the streets of Westminster on a day in June , enjoying the flowers in the shops , the greetings from old friends , but never really drawing a deep , passionate breath , was so like himself .
He , and Mrs. Dalloway , too , had never permitted themselves the luxury of joys that dug into the bone marrow of the spirit .
He had not because he was both poor and ambitious .
Poverty imposes a kind of chastity on the ambitious .
They cannot stop to grasp and embrace and sit in the back seat of cars along a dark country lane .
No , they must look the other way and climb one more painful step up the ladder .
He made the decision with his eyes open , or so he thought .
At any cost , he must leave the dreary Pennsylvania mining town where his father was a pharmacist .
And so he had , so he had .
At State College , he had no time to walk among the violets on the water's edge .
From his room he could look out in springtime and see the couples hand in hand walking slowly , deliciously , across the campus , and he could smell the sweet vernal winds .
He was not stone .
He was not unmoved .
He had to teach himself patiently that these traps were not for him .
He must mentally pull the blinds and close the window , so that all that existed was in the books before him .
At law school , the same .
More of this stamping down of human emotion as a young lawyer in New York .
By the time he was prosperous enough -- his goals were high -- he was bald and afraid of women .
The only one who would have him was his cripple , the strange unhappy woman who became his wife .
Perhaps it was right ; ;
perhaps it was just .
He had dared to defy nature , to turn his back to the Lorelei , and he was punished .
Like Mrs. Dalloway , with her regrets about Peter Walsh , he had his moments of melancholy over a youth too well spent .
If he had had a son , he would tell him , `` Gather ye rosebuds while ye may This same flower that smiles today tomorrow will be dying '' .
But then his son could afford it .
Lawrence was waiting for Bill Boxell .
The Vice President had called and asked if he could see the Secretary at his home .
He said the matter was urgent .
The Secretary was uneasy about the visit .
He did not like Boxell .
He suspected something underhanded and furtive about him .
Lawrence could not put his finger on it precisely , and this worried him .
When you disliked or distrusted a man , you should have a reason .
Human nature was not a piece of meat you could tell was bad by its smell .
Lawrence stared a minute at the lighted ribbon of traffic , hoping that a clue to his dislike of the Vice President would appear .
It did not .
Therefore , he decided he was unfair to the young man and should make an effort to understand and sympathize with his point of view .
A half hour later the Vice President arrived .
He looked very carefully at every piece of furnishing , as though hoping to store this information carefully in his mind .
He observed the Florentine vase in the hall , the Renoir painting in the library , as well as the long shelves of well-bound volumes ; ;
the pattern of the Oriental rug , the delicate cut-glass chandelier .
He said to the Secretary , `` I understand you came from a little Pennsylvania town near Wilkes-Barre .
How did you find out about this '' ? ?
He waved his arm around at the furnishings .
It was not a discourteous question , Lawrence decided .
This young man had so little time to learn he had to be curious ; ;
he had to find out .
The Secretary did not tell him at what cost , at what loneliness , he learned these things .
He merely said , `` Any good decorator these days can make you a tasteful home '' .
The Vice President said , `` If you hear of any names that would fix me cheap in return for advertising they decorated the Vice President's home , let me know .
I can do business with that kind '' .
Again , Lawrence thought a little sadly , these were the fees of poverty and ambition .
Boxell did not have the chance to grow up graciously .
He had to acquire everything he was going to get in four years .
They had brandy in the library .
Boxell looked at Lawrence with a searching glance , the kind that a prosecuting attorney would give a man on trial .
What are your weaknesses ? ?
Where will you break ? ?
How best to destroy your peace ? ?
The Vice President said with a slight bluster , `` There isn't anyone who loves the President more than I do .
Old Chris is my ideal .
At the same time , you have to face facts and realize that a man who's been in the Marine Corps all his life doesn't understand much about politics .
What does a monk know about sex '' ? ?
Lawrence listened with the practiced , deceptive calm of the lawyer , but his face was in the shadow .
`` So , we have to protect the old man for his own good .
You see what I mean .
Congress is full of politicians , and if you want to get along with them , you have to be politic .
This is why I say we just can't go ahead and disarm the Germans and pull down our own defenses .
Let me tell you what happened to me today .
A fellow came up to me , a Senator , I don't have to tell you his name , and he told me , ' I love the President like a brother , but God damn it , he's crucifying me .
I've got a quarter of a million Germans in my state , and those krautheads tune in on Father Werther every night , and if he tells them to go out and piss in the public square , that's what they do .
He's telling them now to write letters to their Congressmen opposing the disarmament of Germany .
And another one comes to me and he says , ' Look here , there's a mill in my state employs five thousand people making uniforms for the Navy .
The Bishop looked at him coldly and said , `` Take it or leave it '' ! !
Literally , there was nothing else to do .
He was caught in a machine .
But Sojourner was not easily excited or upset and said quite calmly : `` Let's go and see what it's like '' .
Annisberg was about seventy-five miles west of Birmingham , near the Georgia border and on the Tallahoosa River , a small and dirty stream .
The city was a center of manufacture , especially in textiles , and also because of the beauty of some of its surroundings , a residence for many owners of the great industries in north Alabama .
But it had , as was usual in southern cities of this sort , a Black Bottom , a low region near the river where the Negroes lived -- servants and laborers huddled together in a region with no sewage save the river , where streets and sidewalks were neglected and where there was much poverty and crime .
Wilson came by train from Birmingham and looked the city over ; ;
the rather pleasant white city was on the hill where the chief stores were .
Beyond were industries and factories .
Then they went down to Black Bottom .
In the midst of this crowded region was the Allen African Methodist Episcopal Church .
It was an old and dirty wooden structure , sadly in need of repair .
But it was a landmark .
It had been there 50 years or more and everybody in town , black and white , knew of it .
It had just suffered a calamity , the final crisis in a long series of calamities .
For the old preacher who had been there twenty-five years was dead , and the city mourned him .
He was a loud-voiced man , once vigorous but for many years now declining in strength and ability .
He was stern and overbearing with his flock , but obsequious and conciliatory with the whites , especially the rich who partly supported the church .
The Deacon Board , headed by a black man named Carlson , had practically taken over as the pastor grew old , and had its way with the support of the Amen corner .
The characteristic thing about this church was its Amen corner and the weekly religious orgy .
A knot of old worshippers , chiefly women , listened weekly to a sermon .
It began invariably in low tones , almost conversational , and then gradually worked up to high , shrill appeals to God and man .
And then the Amen corner took hold , re-enacting a form of group participation in worship that stemmed from years before the Greek chorus , spreading down through the African forest , overseas to the West Indies , and then here in Alabama .
With shout and slow dance , with tears and song , with scream and contortion , the corner group was beset by hysteria and shivering , wailing , shouting , possession of something that seemed like an alien and outside force .
It spread to most of the audience and was often viewed by visiting whites who snickered behind handkerchief and afterward discussed Negro religion .
It sometimes ended in death-like trances with many lying exhausted and panting on chair and floor .
To most of those who composed the Amen corner it was a magnificent and beautiful experience , something for which they lived from week to week .
It was often re-enacted in less wild form at the Wednesday night prayer meeting .
Wilson , on his first Sunday , witnessed this with something like disgust .
He had preached a short sermon , trying to talk man-to-man to the audience , to tell them who he was , what he had done in Macon and Birmingham , and what he proposed to do here .
He sympathized with them on the loss of their old pastor .
But then , at mention of that name , the Amen corner broke loose .
He had no chance to say another word .
At the very end , when the audience was silent and breathless , a collection was taken and then slowly everyone filed out .
The audience did not think much of the new pastor , and what the new pastor thought of the audience he did not dare at the time to say .
During the next weeks he looked over the situation .
First of all there was the parsonage , an utterly impossible place for civilized people to live in , originally poorly conceived , apparently not repaired for years , with no plumbing or sewage , with rat-holes and rot .
It was arranged that he would board in the home of one of the old members of the church , a woman named Catt who , as Wilson afterward found , was briefly referred to as The Cat because of her sharp tongue and fierce initiative .
Ann Catt was a lonely , devoted soul , never married , conducting a spotless home and devoted to her church , but a perpetual dissenter and born critic .
She soared over the new pastor like an avenging angel lest he stray from the path and not know all the truth and gossip of which she was chief repository .
Then Wilson looked over the church and studied its condition .
The salary of the pastor had for years been $500 annually and even this was in arrears .
Wilson made up his mind that he must receive at least $2,500 , but when he mentioned this to the Deacons they said nothing .
The church itself must be repaired .
It was dirty and neglected .
It really ought to be rebuilt , and he determined to go up and talk to the city banks about this .
Meanwhile , the city itself should be talked to .
The streets in the colored section were dirty .
There was typhoid and malaria .
The children had nowhere to go and no place to play , not even sidewalks .
The school was small , dark and ill-equipped .
The teacher was a pliant fool .
There were two liquor saloons not very far from the church , one white , that is conducted for white people with a side entrance for Negroes ; ;
the other exclusively Negro .
Undoubtedly , there was a good deal of gambling in both .
On the other side of the church was a quiet , well-kept house with shutters and recently painted .
Wilson inquired about it .
It was called Kent House .
The deacon of the church , Carlson , was its janitor .
One of the leading members of the Amen corner was cook ; ;
there were two or three colored maids employed there .
Wilson was told that it was a sort of hotel for white people , which seemed to him rather queer .
Why should a white hotel be set down in the center of Black Bottom ? ?
But nevertheless it looked respectable .
He was glad to have it there .
The rest of Black Bottom was a rabbit warren of homes in every condition of neglect , disrepair and careful upkeep .
Dives , carefully repaired huts , and nicely painted and ornamented cottages were jumbled together cheek by jowl with little distinction .
The best could not escape from the worst and the worst nestled cosily beside the better .
The yards , front and back , were narrow ; ;
some were trash dumps , some had flower gardens .
Behind were privies , for there was no sewage system .
After looking about a bit , Wilson discovered beyond Black Bottom , across the river and far removed from the white city , a considerable tract of land , and it occurred to him that the church and the better Negro homes might gradually be moved to this plot .
He talked about it to the Presiding Elder .
The Presiding Elder looked him over rather carefully .
He was not sure what kind of a man he had in hand .
But there was one thing that he had to stress , and that was that the contribution to the general church expenses , the dollar money , had been seriously falling behind in this church , and that must be looked after immediately .
In fact , he intimated clearly that that was the reason that Wilson had been sent here -- to make a larger contribution of dollar money .
Wilson stressed the fact that clear as this was , they must have a better church , a more business-like conduct of the church organization , and an effort to get this religious center out of its rut of wild worship into a modern church organization .
He emphasized to the Presiding Elder the plan of giving up the old church and moving across the river .
The Presiding Elder was sure that that would be impossible .
But he told Wilson to `` go ahead and try '' .
And Wilson tried .
It did seem impossible .
The bank which held the mortgage on the old church declared that the interest was considerably in arrears , and the real estate people said flatly that the land across the river was being held for an eventual development for white working people who were coming in , and that none would be sold to colored folk .
When it was proposed to rebuild the church , Wilson found that the terms for a new mortgage were very high .
He was sure that he could do better if he went to Atlanta to get the deal financed .
But when this proposal was made to his Deacon Board , he met unanimous opposition .
The church certainly would not be removed .
The very proposition was sacrilege .
It had been here fifty years .
It was going to stay forever .
It was hardly possible to get any argument on the subject .
As for rebuilding , well , that might be looked into , but there was no hurry , no hurry at all .
Wilson again went downtown to a different banker , an intelligent young white man who seemed rather sympathetic , but he shook his head .
`` Reverend '' , he said , `` I think you don't quite understand the situation here .
Don't you see the amount of money that has been invested by whites around that church ? ?
Tenements , stores , saloons , some gambling , I hope not too much .
The colored people are getting employment at Kent House and other places , and they are near their places of employment .
When a city has arranged things like this you cannot easily change them .
Now , if I were you I would just plan to repair the old church so it would last for five or ten years .
By that time , perhaps something better can be done '' .
Then Wilson asked , `` What about this Kent House which you mention ? ?
I don't understand why a white hotel should be down here '' .
The young banker looked at him with a certain surprise , and then he said flatly : `` I'm afraid I can't tell you anything in particular about Kent House .
You'll have to find out about it on your own .
Hope to see you again '' .
And he dismissed the colored pastor .
It was next day that Sojourner came and sat beside him and took his hand .
She said , `` My dear , do you know what Kent House is '' ? ?
`` No '' , said Wilson , `` I don't .
I was just asking about it .
What is it '' ? ?
`` It's a house of prostitution for white men with white girls as inmates .
They hire a good deal of local labor , including two members of our Trustee Board .
They buy some supplies from our colored grocers and they are patronized by some of the best white gentlemen in town '' .
Wilson stared at her .
`` My dear , you must be mistaken '' .
`` Talk to Mrs. Catt '' , she said .
And after Wilson had talked to Mrs. Catt and to others , he was absolutely amazed .
This , of course , was the sort of thing that used to take place in Southern cities -- putting white houses of prostitution with colored girls in colored neighborhoods and carrying them on openly .
But it had largely disappeared on account of protest by the whites and through growing resentment on the part of the Negroes as they became more educated and got better wages .
But this situation of Kent House was more subtle .
The wages involved were larger and more regular .
The inmates were white and from out of town , avoiding local friction .
The backing from the white town was greater and there was little publicity .
Good wages , patronage and subscription of various kinds stopped open protest from Negroes .
And yet Wilson knew that this place must go or he must go .
And for him to leave this job now without accomplishing anything would mean practically the end of his career in the Methodist church , if not in all churches .
Payne dismounted in Madison Place and handed the reins to Herold .
There was a fog , which increased the darkness of the night .
Two gas lamps were no more than a misleading glow .
He might have been anywhere or nowhere .
The pretence was that he was delivering a prescription from Dr. Verdi .
Secretary of State Seward was a sick man .
The idea had come from Herold , who had once been a chemist's clerk .
The sick were always receiving medicines .
No one would question such an errand .
The bottle was filled up with flour .
Before Payne loomed the Old Clubhouse , Seward's home , where Key had once been killed .
Now it would have another death .
From the outside it was an ordinary enough house of the gentry .
He clomped heavily up the stoop and rang the bell .
Like the bell at Mass , the doorbell was pitched too high .
It was still Good Friday , after all .
A nigger boy opened the door .
Payne did not notice him .
He was thinking chiefly of Cap .
If their schedules were to synchronize , there was no point in wasting time .
He pushed his way inside .
For a moment the hall confused him .
This was the largest house he had ever been in , almost the largest building , except for a hotel .
He had no idea where Seward's room would be .
In the half darkness the banisters gleamed , and the hall seemed enormous .
Above him somewhere were the bedrooms .
Seward would be up there .
He explained his errand , but without bothering much to make it plausible , for he felt something well up in him which was the reason why he had fled the army .
He did not really want to kill , but as in the sexual act , there was a moment when the impulse took over and could not be downed , even while you watched yourself giving way to it .
He was no longer worried .
Everything would be all right .
He knew that in this mood he could not be stopped .
Still , the sensation always surprised him .
It was a thrill he felt no part in .
He could only watch with a sort of gentle dismay while his body did these quick , appalling , and efficient things .
He brushed by the idiotic boy and lumbered heavily up the stairs .
They were carpeted , but made for pumps and congress gaiters , not the great clodhoppers he wore .
The sound of his footsteps was like a muffled drum .
At the top of the stairs he ran into somebody standing there angrily in a dressing gown .
He stopped and whispered his errand .
Young Frederick Seward held out his hand .
Panting a little , Payne shook his head .
Dr. Verdi had told him to deliver his package in person .
Frederick Seward said his father was sleeping , and then went through a pantomime at his father's door , to prove the statement .
`` Very well '' , Payne said .
`` I will go '' .
He smiled , but now that he knew where the elder Seward was , he did not intend to go .
He pulled out his pistol and fired it .
It made no sound .
It had misfired .
Reversing it , he smashed the butt down on Frederick Seward's head , over and over again .
It was the first blow that was always difficult .
After that , violence was exultantly easy .
He got caught up into it and became a different person .
Only afterwards did an act like that become meaningless , so that he would puzzle over it for days , whereas at the time it had seemed quite real .
The nigger boy fled down the stairs , screaming , `` Murder '' .
It was not murder at all .
Payne was more methodical than that .
He was merely clearing a way to what he had to do .
He ran for the sick room , found his pistol was broken , and threw it away .
A knife would do .
From childhood he had known all about knives .
Someone blocked the door from inside .
He smashed it in and tumbled into darkness .
He saw only dimly moving figures , but when he slashed them they yelled and fled .
He went for the bed , jumped on it , and struck where he could , repeatedly .
It was like finally getting into one's own nightmares to punish one's dreams .
Two men pulled him off .
Nobody said anything .
Payne hacked at their arms .
There was a lady there , in a nightdress .
He would not have wanted to hurt a lady .
Another man approached , this one fully dressed .
When the knife went into his chest , he went down at once .
`` I'm mad '' , shouted Payne , as he ran out into the hall .
`` I'm mad '' , and only wished he had been .
That would have made things so much easier .
But he was not mad .
He was only dreaming .
He clattered down the stairs and out of the door .
Somewhere in the fog , the nigger boy was still yelling murder .
One always wakes up , even from one's own dreams .
The clammy air revived him .
Herold , he saw , had fled .
Well , one did not expect much of people like Herold .
He unhitched his horse , walked it away , mounted , and spurred it on .
The nigger boy was close behind him .
Then the nigger boy turned back and he was alone .
He rode on and on .
He had no idea where he was .
After some time he came to an open field .
An open field was better than a building , that was for sure , so he dismounted , turned off the horse , and plunged through the grass .
He felt curiously sleepy , the world seemed far away ; ;
he knew he should get to Cap , but he didn't know how .
He was sure , for he had done as he was told , hadn't he ? ?
Cap would find him and take care of him .
So choosing a good tree , he clambered up into it , found a comfortable notch , and curled up in it to sleep , like the tousled bear he was , with his hands across his chest , as though surfeited with honey .
Violence always made him tired , but he was not frightened .
In Boston , Edwin Booth was winding up a performance of A New Way To Pay Old Debts .
It was a part so familiar to him that he did not bother to think about it any more .
Acting soothed him .
On a stage he always knew what to do , and tonight , to judge by the applause , he must be doing it better than usual .
As Sir Giles Overreach ( how often had he had to play that part , who did not believe a word of it ) , he raised his arm and declaimed : `` Where is my honour now '' ? ?
That was one of the high spots of the play .
The audience , as usual , loved it .
He was delighted to see them so happy .
If he had any worries , it was only the small ones , about Mother in New York , and his daughter Edwina and what she might be doing at this hour , with her Aunt Asia , in Philadelphia .
Everyone is ambivalent about his profession , if he has practised it long enough , but there were still moments when he loved the stage and all those unseen people out there , who might cheer you or boo you , but that was largely , though not entirely , up to you .
They made the world seem friendly somehow , though he knew it was not .
7 ,
Wilkes was quite right about one thing .
Laura Keene had been in the green room .
The commotion had brought her into the wings .
Since she could not act , one part suited her as well as any other , and so she was the first person to offer Mr. Lincoln a glass of water , holding it up to the box , high above her head , to Miss Harris , who had asked for it .
She had been one of the first to collect her wits .
It was not so much that the shot had stunned the audience , as that they had been stunned already .
Most of them had seen Our American Cousin before , and unless Miss Keene was on stage , there was not much to it .
The theatre was hot and they were drugged with boredom .
The stage had been empty , except for Harry Hawk , doing his star monologue .
The audience was fond of Harry Hawk , he was a dear , in or out of character , but he was not particularly funny .
At the end of the monologue the audience would applaud .
Meanwhile it looked at the scenery .
`` Well , I guess I know enough to turn you inside out , you sockdologizing old mantrap '' ! !
Said Trenchard , otherwise Hawk .
There was always a pause here , before the next line .
That was when the gun went off .
Yet even that explosion did not mean much .
Guns were going off all over Washington City these days , because of the celebrations , and the theatre was not soundproof .
Then the audience saw a small , dim figure appear at the edge of the Presidential box .
`` Sic semper tyrannis '' , it said mildly .
Booth had delivered his line .
Behind him billowed a small pungent cloud of smoke .
They strained forward .
They had not heard what had been said .
They had been sitting too long to be able to stand up easily .
The figure leapt from the box , almost lost its balance , the flag draped there tore in the air , the figure landed on its left leg , fell on its hands , and pressed itself up .
Harry Hawk still had his arm raised towards the wings .
His speech faltered .
He did not lower his arm .
The figure was so theatrically dressed , that it was as though a character from some other play had blundered into this one .
The play for Saturday night was to be a benefit performance of The Octoroon .
This figure looked like the slave dealer from that .
But it also looked like a toad , hopping away from the light .
There was something maimed and crazy about its motion that disturbed them .
Then it disappeared into the wings .
Harry Hawk had not shifted position , but he at last lowered his arm .
Mrs. Lincoln screamed .
There was no mistaking that scream .
It was what anyone who had ever seen her had always expected her to do .
Yet this scream had a different note in it .
That absence of an urgent self-indulgence dashed them awake like a pail of water .
Clara Harris , one of the guests in the box , stood up and demanded water .
Her action was involuntary .
When something unexpected happened , one always asked for water if one were a woman , brandy if one were a man .
Mrs. Lincoln screamed again .
In the Presidential box someone leaned over the balustrade and yelled : `` He has shot the President '' ! !
That got everybody up .
On the stage , Harry Hawk began to weep .
Laura Keene brushed by him with the glass of water .
The crowd began to move .
In Washington City everyone lived in a bubble of plots , and one death might attract another .
It was not exactly panic they gave way to , but they could not just sit there .
The beehive voices , for no one could bear silence , drowned out the sound of Mrs. Lincoln's weeping .
At the rear of the auditorium , upstairs , some men tried to push open the door to the box corridor .
It would not give .
A Dr. Charles Taft clambered up on the stage and got the actors to hoist him up to the box .
In the audience a man named Ferguson lost his head and tried to rescue a little girl from the mob , on the same principle which had led Miss Harris to demand water .
Someone opened the corridor door from the inside , and called for a doctor .
Somehow Dr. Charles Leale was forced through the mob and squeezed out into the dingy corridor .
He went straight to the Presidential box .
As usual , Mrs. Lincoln had lost her head , but nobody blamed her for doing so now .
There was a little blood on the hem of her dress , for the assassin had slashed Miss Harris's companion , Major Rathbone , with a knife .
Rathbone said he was bleeding to death .
By the look of him he wasn't that far gone .
With a sneer , the man spread his legs and , a third time , confronted them .
Once more , Katie reared , and whinnied in fear .
For a moment , boy and mount hung in midair .
Stevie twisted and , frantically , commanded the mare to leap straight ahead .
But the stranger was nimbler still .
With a bold arm , he dared once more to obstruct them .
Katie reared a third time , then , trembling , descended .
The stranger leered .
Seizing the bridle , he tugged with all his might and forced Katie to her knees .
It was absurd .
Stevie could feel himself toppling .
He saw the ground coming up -- and the stranger's head .
With incredible ferocity , he brought his fists together and struck .
The blow encountered silky hair and hard bone .
The man uttered a weird cry , spun about , and collapsed in the sand .
Katie scrambled to her feet , Stevie agilely retaining his seat .
Again Katie reared , and now , wickedly , he compelled her to bring her hooves down again and again upon the sprawled figure of the stranger .
He could feel his own feet , iron-shod , striking repeatedly until the body was limp .
He gloated , and his lips slavered .
He heard himself chortling .
They rode around and around to trample the figure into the sand .
Only the top of the head , with a spot bare and white as a clamshell , remained visible .
Stevie was shouting triumphantly .
A train hooted .
Instantly , he chilled .
They were pursuing him .
He was frightened ; ;
his fists clutched so tightly that his knuckles hurt .
Then Katie stumbled , and again he was falling , falling ! !
`` Stevie ! !
Stevie '' ! !
His mother was nudging him , but he was still falling .
His head hung over the boards of Katie's stall ; ;
before it was sprawled the mangled corpse of the bearded stranger .
`` Stevie , wake up now ! !
We're nearly there '' .
He had been dreaming .
He was safe in his Mama's arms .
The train had slowed .
Houses winked as the cars rolled beside a little depot .
`` Po' Chavis '' ! !
The trainman called .
He came by and repeated , `` Po' Chavis '' ! !
Chapter 6
Bong ! !
Bong ! !
Startled him awake .
The room vibrated as if a giant hand had rocked it .
Bong ! !
A dull boom and a throbbing echo .
The walls bulged , the floor trembled , the windowpanes rattled .
He stared at the far morning , expecting a pendulum to swing across the horizon .
Bong ! !
He raced to the window and yanked at the sash .
Bong ! !
The wood was old , the paint alligatored .
Bong ! !
A fresh breeze saluted him .
Six o'clock ! !
He put his head out .
There was the slate roof of the church ; ;
ivy climbed the red brick walls like a green-scaled monster .
The clock which had struck presented an innocent face .
In the kitchen Mama was wiping the cupboards .
`` There's a tower and a steeple on the church a million feet high .
And the loudest clock in the whole world '' ! !
`` I know , Stephen '' , she smiled .
`` They say that our steeple is one hundred and sixty-two feet high .
The clock you heard strike -- it's really the town clock -- was installed last April by Mrs. Shorter , on her birthday '' .
He dressed , and sped outdoors .
He crossed Broome Street to Orange Square .
The steeple leaned backward , while the church advanced like a headless creature in a long , shapeless coat .
The spire seemed to hold up the sky .
Port Jervis , basking in the foothills , was the city of God .
The Dutch Reformed Church , with two steeples and its own school was on Main Street ; ;
the Episcopal Church was one block down Sussex Street ; ;
the Catholic Saint Mary's Church , with an even taller steeple and a cross on top , stood on Ball Street .
The Catholics had the largest cemetery , near the Neversink River where Main Street ran south ; ;
Stevie whistled when he passed these alien grounds .
God was everywhere , in the belfry , in the steeple , in the clouds , in the trees , and in the mountains hulking on the horizon .
Somewhere , beyond , where shadows lurked , must be the yawning pit of which Papa preached and the dreadful Lake of Fire .
So , walking in awe , he became familiar with God , who resided chiefly in Drew Centennial Church with its high steeple and clock .
There was no church like Drew Church , no preacher like Papa , who was intimate with Him , and could consign sinners to hellfire .
To know God he must follow in Papa's footsteps .
He was fortunate , and proud .
The veterans , idling on their benches in the Square , beneath the soldiers' monument , got to their feet when Papa approached : `` Morning , Reverend '' ! !
His being and His will -- Stevie could not divide God from his Papa -- illumined every parish face , turned the choir into a band of angels , and the pulpit into the tollgate to Heaven .
`` We have nine hundred and eleven members in our charge '' , Mama announced , `` and three hundred and eighty Sunday-school scholars '' .
When Papa went out to do God's work , Stevie often accompanied him in the buggy , which was drawn by Violet , the new black mare .
Although they journeyed westerly as far as Germantown , beyond the Erie roundhouse and the machine shop , and along the Delaware and Hudson Canal , and northward to Brooklyn , below Point Peter , he could see the church spire wherever he looked back .
Sometimes they went south and rolled past the tollhouse -- `` Afternoon , Reverend '' ! !
-- and crossed the suspension bridge to Matamoras ; ;
that was Pennsylvania .
In the Delaware River , three long islands were overgrown with greening trees and underbrush .
South of Laurel Grove Cemetery , and below the junction of the Neversink and the Delaware , was the Tri-State Rock , from which Stevie could spy New Jersey and Pennsylvania , as well as New York , simply by spinning around on his heel .
On these excursions , Papa instructed him on man's chief end , which was his duty to God and his own salvation .
However , a boy's lively eyes might rove .
Where Cuddleback Brook purled into the Neversink was a magnificent swimming hole .
Papa pointed a scornful finger at the splashing youth : `` Idle recreation '' ! !
Stevie saw no idols ; ;
it troubled him that he couldn't always see what Papa saw .
He was torn between the excitement in the sun-inflamed waters and a little engine chugging northward on the Monticello Branch .
`` Where you been today '' ? ?
Ludie inquired every evening , pretending that he did not care .
`` He'll make a preacher out of you '' ! !
`` No , he won't '' ! !
Stevie flared .
`` Not me '' ! !
`` Somebody's got to be a preacher in the family .
He made a will and last testament before we left Paterson .
I heard them ! !
Uncle and Aunt Howe were the witnesses '' .
`` Will he die '' ? ?
`` Everybody does '' .
Ludie could be hateful .
To speak of Papa dying was a sin .
It could never happen as long as God was alert and the Drew steeple stood guard with its peaked lance .
Stevie was constantly slipping into the church .
He pulled with all his strength at the heavy , brass-bound door , and shuffled along the wainscoted wall .
The cold , mysterious presence of God was all around him .
At the end of a shaft of light , the pews appeared to be broad stairs in a long dungeon .
Far away , standing before a curtained window in the study room , was his father , hands tucked under his coattails , and staring into the dark church .
The figure was wreathed in an extraordinary luminescence .
The boy shuddered at the deathly pale countenance with its wrinkles and gray hair .
Would Papa really die ? ?
The mouth was thin-lipped and wide , the long cleft in the upper lip like a slide .
When Papa's slender fingers removed the spectacles , there were red indentations on the bridge of the strong nose .
`` It's time you began to think on God , Stephen .
Perhaps one day He will choose you as He chose me , long ago .
Therefore , give Him your affection and store up His love for you .
Open your heart to Him and pray , Stephen , pray ! !
For His mercy and His guidance to spare you from evil and eternal punishment in the Lake of Fire '' .
Stevie had heard these words many times , yet on each occasion they caused him to tremble .
For he feared the Lake of Fire .
He strove to think of God and His eternal wrath ; ;
he must pray to be spared .
Papa was disappointed that none of the brothers had heard the Call .
Not George , Townley , or Ted , certainly not Ludie .
Burt was at Hackettstown and Will at Albany Law School , where they surely could not hear it .
Someday God would choose him .
He would hear the Call and would run to tell Papa .
The stern face would relax , the black-clad arms would embrace him , `` My son '' ! !
Yet how might he know the Call when it came ? ?
Probably , as in Scriptures , a still , small voice would whisper .
It would summon him once ; ;
if he missed it , never again .
What if it came when he was playing , or was asleep and dreaming ? ?
He must not fail to hear it .
He was Papa's chosen ; ;
therefore , nothing but good could happen to him , even in God's wrathful storms .
When the skies grew dark and thunder rolled across the valley , he was unafraid .
Aggie might fly into a closet , shut the door and bury her head in the clothes ; ;
he dared to wait for the lightning .
Lightning could strike you blind if you were a sinner ! !
But he was good .
He clenched his fists and faced the terror .
Thunder crashed ; ;
barrels tumbled down the mountainsides , and bounced and bounced till their own fury split them open .
Lightning might strike the steeples of the other churches ; ;
not of Drew Church .
A flash illumined the trees as a crooked bolt twigged in several directions .
Violet whinnied from the stable .
He ran out into the downpour , sped across the yard and into the buggy room .
`` Don't be afraid , Violet '' ! !
He shouted , and was aghast at the echoes .
`` Don't you be afraid '' ! !
He would save her .
If there was a fire or a flood he would save Mama first and Violet next .
Drenched and shaking , he stood near the sweet-smelling stall and dared to pat her muzzle .
`` Don't you be afraid , Violet '' ! !
After the storm , the sky cleared blue and cool , and fragrant air swept the hills .
When the sun came out , Stevie strode proudly into Orange Square , smiling like a landlord on industrious tenants .
The fountain had brimmed over , the cannon were wet , the soldiers' monument glistened .
Even before the benches had dried , the Civil War veterans were straggling back to their places .
The great spire shone as if the lightning had polished it .
He jumped .
The pointed shadow had nearly touched him .
He trailed Ludie to the baseball game in the lot on Kingston Street near the Dutch Reformed .
`` Go on home '' ! !
Ludie screeched at him .
`` Someone'll tell Papa '' ! !
No one told on Ludie , not even when he slipped live grasshoppers into the mite-box .
Ludie did as he pleased .
Ludie took his slingshot and climbed to the rooftop to shoot at crows .
Ludie chewed roofer's tar .
Ludie had a cigar box full of marbles and shooters , and a Roman candle from last Fourth of July .
Ludie hopped rides on freight cars , and was chased by Mr. Yankton , the railroad guard .
He came home overheated , ran straight to the ice-chest , and gulped shivery cold water .
Stevie envied him .
That Ludie ! !
He , too , cocked his cap at a jaunty angle , jingled marbles in his pocket , and swaggered down Main Street .
On the Christophers' lawn , little girls in white pinafores were playing grownups at a tea party .
A Newfoundland sat solemnly beside a doghouse half his size .
Stevie yearned for a dog .
He wondered whether God had a dog in the sky .
He meandered down Pike Street , past the First National Bank with its green window shades .
He crossed the tracks to Delaware House , where ladies in gay dresses and men in straw boaters and waxed mustaches crowded the verandah .
A tall lady , with a ruffled collar very low on her bosom , turned insolent green eyes upon him .
She was taller than Aggie .
She was so beautiful with her rosy mouth and haughty air that she had to be wicked .
Fiddles screeched ; ;
a piano tinkled .
`` P. J. '' -- as Ludie called the town -- was crowded with summer people who came to the mountains to escape the heat in the big cities .
They stayed at hotels and boardinghouses , or at private homes .
Rich people went to Delaware House , Opera House , American House or Fowler House .
If the crummy bastard could write ! !
That's how it should be .
It's those two fucken niggers ! !
Krist , I wish they could write ! !
Nigger pussy .
He thought of sweet wet nigger pussy .
Oh , sweet land of heaven , haint there just nothin like sweet nigger pussy ! !
He thought of her , the first one .
He had caught her coming out of the shack .
She was a juicy one .
Oh how they bounced ! !
Fresh , warm , sweet and juicy , sweet lovin sixteen , she was .
Man , how I love nigger pussy ! !
The snow came a little faster now , he noted .
He thought of Joe Harris , the nigger who had gone after his sister .
He chuckled , the memory vivid .
Jee-sus , We Fixed him ! !
Yooee , we fixed him ! !
The snow again .
If only the fucken weather wasn't so lousy ! !
Goddamn niggers , Lord .
What I have to put up with ! !
Sonuvabitch , I can't figure out what in hell for they went and put niggers in my squad for .
Only one worth a shit , and that's Brandon .
He ain't so bad .
His thoughts turned to other things .
The big shock everybody had when they found ol Slater and those others done for .
Kaboom for .
He had been pretty scared himself , wondering what the hell was coming off .
But he soon saw which way the ball was bouncing .
Soon came back to his senses .
`` I soon came back to my senses '' , he said , aloud , to the young blizzard , proudly , drawing himself up , as if making a report to some important superior .
I was the first to get my squad on the ball , and anybody thinkin it was easy is pretty damn dumb .
Look at thum .
That goddamn redheader was the worst .
He kept sayin , not me , not me , I don't wanta wind up like em .
But I told him , goddammit .
`` I told him '' , he said aloud They'll get the guys that done it .
That'll put the place back to normal .
Normal , by God .
Maybe it's a good thing it happened .
Maybe they'll stop it now , once for all .
Clean the place up .
They're doin it now .
I hear the whole bunch is croakin out in the snow .
They'll get the guys that done it .
There was something troubling him though : as yet they hadn't Five days .
Keerist .
Prickly twinges of annoyance ran through him .
His eyes blinked hard , snapping on and squashing some bad things that were trying to push their way into him .
A tune began to whirl inside his head .
One of his favorites : `` Guitar Boogie '' .
It always came on , faithfully , just like a radio or juke box , whenever he started to worry too much about something , when the bad things tried to push their way into him .
The music drove them off , or away , and he was free to walk on air in a very few moments , humming and jiving within , beating the rhythm within .
He glowed with anticipation about what would happen to the culprits when they caught them .
Turn the bastards over to me -- to me and my boys -- no nigger ever got what would be comin to them -- reactionary bastards .
He had never heard the word reactionary before his life as a POW began .
It was a word he was proud of , a word that meant much to him , and he used it with great pleasure , almost as if it were an exclusive possession , and more : he sensed himself to be very highly educated , four cuts above any of the folks back home .
`` Four cuts at least '' , he chuckled to himself , `` and I owe it all to them '' .
The word also made him feel hate , sincere hate , for those so labeled .
He used it very effectively when he wanted to get his squad on the ball .
It came up again and again in the discussion sessions .
Lousy Reactionary bastards been tryin to fuck up the Program for months .
Months .
Hired , hard lackeys of the Warmongering capitalists .
Not captured , sent here .
To fuck up the program .
You guys remember that .
Remember that He heard himself haranguing them .
He saw himself before them delivering the speech .
He laughed , suddenly , feeling a surge of power telling him of his hold over them , seeing himself before them , receiving utmost respect and attention .
One day , Ching had told him ( smiling , patting him on the back ) as they walked to the weekly conference of squad leaders , `` Keep it up , your squad is good , one of the best , keep it up , keep up the good work '' .
He would ! !
That was really something , coming from Ching .
`` Really something '' , he said , aloud .
Dirty Reactionary bastards comin down here in the night and bumpin off ol Slater and those other poor bastards .
`` They'll get them by God and let them bring them down here to me , just let them , God , I'll slice their balls right off .
'' His arm moved swiftly , violently , once , twice .
He felt intense satisfaction .
He was tingling within .
Before him , mutilated , bleeding to death , they lay .
It was as if it had been done .
`` Bastards '' , he said aloud , spitting on them .
He halted , and looked around .
Rivers of cold sweat were suddenly unleashed within him .
The thought came back , the one nagging at him these past four days .
He tried to stifle it .
But the words were forming .
He knew he couldn't .
He braced himself .
Somebody'll hafta start thinkin .
He fought it , seeking to kill the last few words , but on they came out .
He was trembling , a strange feeling upon him , fully expecting some catastrophe to strike him dead on the spot .
But it didn't .
And he took heart ; ;
the final word came forth .
Now he heard it , fully ; ;
`` bout takin his place '' He listened , waited , nothing happened .
He felt good .
His old self .
The music arrived , taking him its rhythm .
Stroked him , snaked all through him , the lyrics lifted him , took him from one magic isle to another , stopping briefly at each Brandon .
He is good .
Damn good .
But a nigger .
Johnson .
Jesus , the guy says he is trying .
But he isn't with it , not at all with it .
When I talked to Ching about it , he said , Everyone can learn , if he is not a Reactionary or lazy .
No one is stupid .
That's what he said .
He oughta know .
It is plain as hell Johnson is no reactionary .
So you're not tryin , Johnson , you bastard you .
He looked over at him , lying there , asleep , and he felt a wave of revulsion .
How he loathed him .
Sleepy-eyed , soft-spoken Johnson , Biggest thorn in my side of the whole fucken squad .
He was the guy what always goofed at Question Time .
Why couldn't they have dumped him off on someone else ? ?
Why me ? ?
Why didn't the damn Reactionaries bump him off ? ?
Why Slater ? ?
Like a particle drawn to a magnet he returned to that which was pressing so hard in his mind .
The music surged up , but it failed to check it .
Who is the man to take His place ? ?
The guy with most on the Ball .
Most on the ball .
Handle men .
Thoroughly Wised up .
Knows the score With a supreme effort , he broke it off .
He turned to the window again .
A gnawing and gnashing within him .
The snow was tumbling down furiously now .
Huge glob-flakes hitting the ground , piling higher and higher .
He stared at it , amazed , alarmed .
The whole fucken sky's cavin in ! !
Keeeerist ! !
Lookit it ! !
Cover the whole building , bury us all , by nightfall .
Jesus ! !
Somebody , got to be somebody If I don't put my two cents in soon , somebody else will I know they're waitin only for one thing : for the bastards what done it to be nailed .
Maybe they already got them .
He was again tingling with pleasure , seeing himself clearly in Slater's shoes .
Top dog , sleeping and eating right there with the Staff .
Ching , Tien , all of them .
Top dog .
Poor ol Slater .
Jesus , imagine , the crummy bastards , they'll get em , they'll get what's comin to em .
He whirled about suddenly .
It was nothing , though his heart was thumping wildly .
Somebody was up .
That was all .
`` Boy , you're stirrin early '' , a sleepy voice said .
`` Yehhh '' , said Coughlin , testily , eyeing him up and down .
`` Lookit that come down , willya '' , said the man , scratching himself , yawning .
`` Yehhh '' , said Coughlin , practically spitting on him .
The man moved away .
That's the way .
They'll toe the line .
Goddamn it .
Keep the chatter to a minimum , short answers , one word , if possible .
Less bull the more you can do with em .
That's Brown's trouble .
All he does is to bullshit with his squad , and they are the stupidest bastards around .
Just about to get their asses kicked into hut Seven .
Plenty of room there now .
All those dumb 8-Balls croaked .
You can do anything with these dumb fucks if you know how .
Anything .
They'd cut their mothers' belly open .
Give um the works .
See , he's already snapping it up , the dumb jerk .
Coughlin grinned , feeling supremely on top of things .
He watched the snow once again .
It infuriated him .
It made no sense to him .
He whirled around , suddenly hot all over , finding the man who had been standing before him a few moments back , nailing him to the spot on which he now stood , open-mouthed .
`` You , Listen ! !
-- name William Foster's Four Internal Contradictions in Capitalism .
Quick -- Quick -- now '' ! !
The man shrank before the hot fury , searching frantically for the answer .
Finnegan woke up .
There was a hell of a noise this time of morning .
He stared out the window .
For Christ's sake ! !
The whole fucken sky's caved in ! !
He looked for the source of the noise that had awakened him .
It was that prick Coughlin .
What the hell was he up to now ? ?
Why didn't he drop dead ? ?
How did they miss him when they got Slater ? ?
How ? ?
Then he was asking himself the usual early morning questions : What the Hell am I doin here ? ?
Is this a nut-house ? ?
Am I nuts ? ?
Is this for real ? ?
Am I dreamin ? ?
From somewhere in the hut came Coughlin's voice .
`` How long did you study ? ?
How long , buddy '' ? ?
`` For Christ's sake '' ! !
A voice pleaded .
`` Don't Christsake me , buddy ! !
Just answer .
C'mon -- 'mon ! !
''
I'm no hero .
Did I start the damn war ? ?
Automatically , Finnegan started going over today's lesson .
Capitalism rots from the core .
Did I start the damn war ? ?
Who did ? ?
That's a good one .
I thought I knew .
Why don't Uncle Sam mind his own fucken business ? ?
I'll bet both together did .
I bet .
So fuck them both .
Goddamn .
Goddammit .
Just let me go home to Jersey , back to the shore , oh , Jesus , the shore .
The waves breakin in on you and your girl at night there on the warm beach in the moonlight .
If I hafta do this to stay alive by God I'll do it .
I hated the goddamn army from the first day I got in anyhow .
All pricks like Coughlin run it anyway , one way or another .
Fuck them .
He rolled over and tried to shut out the noise , now much louder .
He snuggled into the blanket .
Brandon dreamed .
He was sitting on top of a log which was spinning round and around in the water .
A river , wide as the Missouri , where it ran by his place .
The log was spinning .
But he was not .
So what ? ?
Why should I be spinning just because the goddamn log is spinning ? ?
( he asked this out loud , but no one heard it over the other noise in the hut ) .
Over on the bank , the west bank , a man stood , calling to him .
He couldn't make out what he was saying .
No doubt it had to do with the log .
Why should he be concerned ? ?
Rousseau is so persuasive that Voltaire is almost convinced that he should burn his books , too .
But while the two men are riding into the country , where they are going to dinner , they are attacked in the dark of the forest by a band of thieves , who strip them of everything , including most of their clothes .
`` You must be a very learned man '' , says Voltaire to one of the bandits .
`` A learned man '' ? ?
The bandit laughs in his face .
But Voltaire perseveres .
He goes to the chief himself .
`` At what university did you study '' ? ?
He asks .
He refuses to believe that the bandit chief never attended a higher institution .
`` To have become so corrupt '' , he says , `` surely you must have studied many arts and sciences '' .
The chief , annoyed by these questions , knocks Voltaire down and shouts at him that he not only never went to any school , but never even learned how to read .
When finally the two bedraggled men reach their friend's home , Voltaire's fears are once again aroused .
For it is such a distinguished place , with such fine works of art and such a big library , that there can be little doubt but that the owner has become depraved by all this culture .
To Voltaire's surprise , however , their host gives them fresh clothes to put on , opens his purse to lend them money and sits them down before a good dinner .
Immediately after dinner , however , Rousseau asks for still another favor .
Could he have pen and paper , please ? ?
He is in a hurry to write another essay against culture .
Such was the impromptu that Voltaire gave to howls of laughter at Sans Souci and that was soon circulated in manuscript throughout the literary circles of Europe , to be printed sometime later , but with the name of Timon of Athens , the famous misanthrope , substituted for that of Rousseau .
How cruel ! !
But at the same time how understandable .
How could the rich , for whom life was made so simple , ever understand the subterfuges , the lies , the frauds , the errors , sins and even crimes to which the poor were driven in their efforts to overcome the great advantages the rich had in the race of life ? ?
How , for example , could a Voltaire understand the strange predicament in which a Rousseau would find himself when , soon after the furor of his first Discourse , he acquired still another title to fame ? ?
This time as a musician .
As a composer .
Ever since he had first begun to study music and to teach it , Rousseau had dreamed of piercing through to fame as the result of a successful opera .
But his facility in this genre was not great .
And his efforts to get a performance for his Gallant Muses invariably failed .
And for good reasons .
His operatic music had little merit .
But then one day , while on a week's visit to the country home of a retired Swiss jeweler , Rousseau amused the company with a few little melodies he had written , to which he attached no great importance .
He was really amazed to discover the other guests so excited about these delicate little songs .
`` Put a few such songs together '' , they urged him .
`` String them onto some sort of little plot , and you'll have a delightful operetta '' .
He didn't believe them .
`` Nonsense '' , he said .
`` This is the sort of stuff I write and then throw away '' ! !
`` Heaven forbid '' ! !
Cried the ladies , enchanted by his music .
`` You must make an opera out of this material '' .
And they wouldn't leave off arguing and pleading until he had promised .
Oh , the irony and the bitterness of it ! !
That after all his years of effort to become a composer , he should now , now when he was still stoutly replying to the critics of his Discourse on the Arts and Sciences , be so close to a success in music and have to reject it .
Or at least appear to reject it ! !
But what else could he do ? ?
You couldn't on the one hand decry the arts and at the same time practice them , could you ? ?
Well , yes , perhaps in literature , since you could argue that you couldn't keep silent about your feelings against literature and so were involved in spite of yourself .
But now music too ? ?
No .
That would be too much ! !
And the fault , of course , was Rameau's .
The fault was Rameau's and that of the whole culture of this Parisian age .
For it was Rameau's type of music that he had been trying to write , and that he couldn't write .
These little songs , however , were sweet nothings from the heart , tender memories of his childhood , little melodies that anyone could hum and that would make one want to weep .
But no .
He couldn't appear as a composer now .
That glory , craved for so long , was now forbidden to him .
Still , just for the ladies , and just for this once , for this one weekend in the country , he would make a little piece out of his melodies .
The ladies were delighted and Jean Jacques was applauded .
And everyone went to work to learn the parts which he wrote .
But then , after the little operetta had been given its feeble amateur rendering , everyone insisted that it was too good to be lost forever , and that the Royal Academy of Music must now have the manuscript in order to give it the really first-rate performance it merited .
Rousseau was aware that he must seem like a hypocrite , standing there and arguing that he could not possibly permit a public performance .
The ladies especially couldn't understand what troubled him .
A contradiction ? ?
Bah , what was a contradiction in one's life ? ?
Every woman has had the experience of saying no when she meant yes , and saying yes when she meant no .
Rousseau had to admit that though he couldn't agree to a public performance , he would indeed , just for his own private satisfaction , dearly love to know how his work would sound when done by professional musicians and by trained voices .
`` I'd simply like to know if it is as good as you kind people seem to think '' , he said .
Duclos , the historian , pointed out to Jean Jacques that this was impossible .
The musicians of the Royal Opera would not rehearse a work merely to see how it would sound .
Merely to satisfy the author's curiosity .
Rousseau agreed .
But he recalled that Rameau had once had a private performance of his opera Armide , behind closed doors , just for himself alone .
Duclos understood what was bothering Rousseau : that the writer of the Prosopopoeia of Fabricius should now become known as the writer of an amusing little operetta .
That would certainly be paradoxical .
But Duclos thought he saw a way out .
`` Let me do the submitting to the Royal Academy '' , he suggested .
`` Your name will never appear .
No one will even suspect that it is your work '' .
To that Rousseau could agree .
But now what crazy twists and turns of his emotions ! !
Afraid at one and the same time that his work might be turned down -- which would be a blow to his pride even though no one knew he was the author -- and that the work would be accepted , and then that his violent feelings in the matter would certainly betray how deeply concerned he was in spite of himself .
And how anxious this lover of obscurity was for applause ! !
And thus torn between his desire to be known as the composer of a successful opera and the necessity of remaining true to his proclaimed desire for anonymity , Rousseau suffered through several painful weeks .
All these emotions were screwed up to new heights when , after acceptance and the first rehearsals , there ensued such a buzz of excitement among Parisian music lovers that Duclos had to come running to Rousseau to inform him that the news had reached the superintendent of the King's amusements , and that he was now demanding that the work be offered first at the royal summer palace of Fontainebleau .
Imagine the honor of it ! !
`` What was your answer '' ? ?
Jean Jacques asked , striving to appear unimpressed .
`` I refused '' , Duclos said .
`` What else could I do ? ?
Monsieur De Cury was incensed , of course .
But I said I would first have to get the author's permission .
And I was certain he would refuse '' .
How infuriating all this was ! !
Why had not this success come to him before he had plunged into his Discourse , and before he had committed himself to a life of austerity and denial ? ?
Now , when everything was opening up to him -- even the court of Louis 15 ! !
-- he had to play a role of self-effacement .
Back and forth Duclos had to go , between M. De Cury and Jean Jacques and between the Duke D'Aumont and Jean Jacques again , as his little operetta , The Village Soothsayer , though still unperformed , took on ever more importance .
And of course the news of who the composer was did finally begin to get around among his closest friends .
But they , naturally , kept his secret well , and the public at large knew only of a great excitement in musical and court circles .
How titillating it was to go among people who did not know him as the composer , but who talked in the most glowing terms of the promise of the piece after having heard the first rehearsals .
The furor was such that people who could not possibly have squirmed their way into the rehearsals were pretending that they were intimate with the whole affair and that it would be sensational .
And listening to such a conversation one morning while taking a cup of chocolate in a cafe , Rousseau found himself bathed in perspiration , trembling lest his authorship become known , and at the same time dreaming of the startling effect he would make if he should proclaim himself suddenly as the composer .
He felt himself now , as he himself says in his Confessions , at a crucial point of his life .
And that was why , on the day of the performance , when a carriage from the royal stables called to take him to the palace , he did not bother to shave .
On the contrary , he was pleased that his face showed a neglect of several days .
Seeing him in that condition , and about to enter the hall where the King , the Queen , the whole royal family and all the members of the highest aristocracy would be present , Grimm and the Abbe Raynal and others tried to stop him .
`` You can't go in that way '' ! !
They cried .
`` Why not '' ? ?
Jean Jacques asked .
`` Who is going to stop me '' ? ?
`` You haven't dressed for the occasion '' ! !
They pointed out to him .
`` I'm dressed as I always am '' , Rousseau said .
`` Neither better nor worse '' .
`` At home , yes '' , they argued .
`` But here you are in the palace .
There's the King .
And Madame De Pompadour '' .
`` If they are here , then surely I have the right to be here '' , Rousseau said .
`` And even more right .
Since I am the composer '' ! !
`` But in such a slovenly condition '' .
`` What is slovenly about me '' ? ?
Rousseau asked .
`` Is it because of my slovenliness that hair grows on my face ? ?
Surely it would grow there whether I washed myself or not .
A hundred years ago I would have worn a beard with pride .
And those without beards would have stood out as not dressed for the occasion .
Now times have changed , and I must pretend that hair doesn't grow on my face .
That's the fashion .
And fashion is the real king here .
Not Louis 15 , , since even he obeys .
Now , if you don't mind , I should like to hear my own piece performed '' .
But of course behind his boldness he didn't feel bold at all .
He trembled lest his piece should fail .
And this in addition to his usual fear of being among people of high society , his fear of making some inane or inappropriate remark .
And even deeper than that : his fear lest in this closed hall he should suddenly itch to relieve himself .
Could he walk out in the midst of his piece ? ?
Here , before the court ? ?
Before the King ? ?
It was the first time any of us had laughed since the morning began .
The rider from Concord was as good as his word .
He came spurring and whooping down the road , his horse kicking up clouds of dust , shouting :
`` They're a-coming ! !
By God , they're a-coming , they are '' ! !
We heard him before he ever showed , and we heard him yelling after he was out of sight .
Solomon Chandler hadn't misjudged the strength of his lungs , not at all .
I think you could have heard him a mile away , and he was bursting at every seam with importance .
I have observed that being up on a horse changes the whole character of a man , and when a very small man is up on a saddle , he'd like as not prefer to eat his meals there .
That's understandable , and I appreciate the sentiment .
As for this rider , I never saw him before or afterwards and never saw him dismounted , so whether he stood tall or short in his shoes , I can't say ; ;
but I do know that he gave the day tone and distinction .
The last thing in the world that resembled a war was our line of farmers and storekeepers and mechanics perched on top of a stone wall , and this dashing rider made us feel a good deal sharper and more alert to the situation .
We came down off the wall as if he had toppled all of us , and we crouched behind it .
I have heard people talk with contempt about the British regulars , but that only proves that a lot of people talk about things of which they are deplorably ignorant .
Whatever we felt about the redcoats , we respected them in terms of their trade , which was killing ; ;
and I know that I , myself , was nauseated with apprehension and fear and that my hands were soaking wet where they held my gun .
I wanted to wipe my flint , but I didn't dare to , the state my hands were in , just as I didn't dare to do anything about the priming .
The gun would fire or not , just as chance willed .
I put a lot more trust in my two legs than in the gun , because the most important thing I had learned about war was that you could run away and survive to talk about it .
The gunfire , which was so near that it seemed just a piece up the road now , stopped for long enough to count to twenty ; ;
and in that brief interval , a redcoat officer came tearing down the road , whipping his horse fit to kill .
I don't know whether he was after our rider , who had gone by a minute before , or whether he was simply scouting conditions ; ;
but when he passed us by , a musket roared , and he reared his horse , swung it around , and began to whip it back in the direction from which he had come .
He was a fine and showy rider , but his skill was wasted on us .
From above me and somewhere behind me , a rifle cracked .
The redcoat officer collapsed like a punctured bolster , and the horse reared and threw him from the saddle , except that one booted foot caught in the stirrup .
Half crazed by the weight dragging , the dust , and the heat , the horse leaped our wall , dashing out the rider's brains against it , and leaving him lying there among us -- while the horse crashed away through the brush .
It was my initiation to war and the insane symphony war plays ; ;
for what had happened on the common was only terror and flight ; ;
but this grinning , broken head , not ten feet away from me , was the sharp definition of what my reality had become .
And now the redcoats were coming , and the gunfire was a part of the dust cloud on the road to the west of us .
I must state that the faster things happened , the slower they happened ; ;
the passage and rhythm of time changed , and when I remember back to what happened then , each event is a separate and frozen incident .
In my recollection , there was a long interval between the death of the officer and the appearance of the first of the retreating redcoats , and in that interval the dust cloud over the road seems to hover indefinitely .
Yet it could not have been more than a matter of seconds , and then the front of the British army came into view .
It was only hours since I had last seen them , but they had changed and I had changed .
In the very front rank , two men were wounded and staggered along , trailing blood behind them .
No drummers here , no pipers , and the red coats were covered with a fine film of dust .
They marched with bayonets fixed , and as fixed on their faces was anger , fear , and torment .
Rank after rank of them came down the road , and the faces were all the same , and they walked in a sea of dust .
`` Committeemen , hold your fire ! !
Hold your fire '' ! !
A voice called , and what made it even more terrible and unreal was that the redcoat ranks never paused for an instant , only some of them glancing toward the stone wall , from behind which the voice came .
The front of their column had already passed us , when another officer came riding down the side of the road , not five paces from where we were .
My Cousin Simmons carried a musket , but he had loaded it with bird shot , and as the officer came opposite him , he rose up behind the wall and fired .
One moment there was a man in the saddle ; ;
the next a headless horror on a horse that bolted through the redcoat ranks , and during the next second or two , we all of us fired into the suddenly disorganized column of soldiers .
One moment , the road was filled with disciplined troops , marching four by four with a purpose as implacable as death ; ;
the next , a cloud of gun smoke covered a screaming fury of sound , out of which the redcoat soldiers emerged with their bayonets and their cursing fury .
In the course of this , they had fired on us ; ;
but I have no memory of that .
I had squeezed the trigger of my own gun , and to my amazement , it had fired and kicked back into my shoulder with the force of an angry mule ; ;
and then I was adding my own voice to the crescendo of sound , hurling more vile language than I ever thought I knew , sobbing and shouting , and aware that if I had passed water before , it was not enough , for my pants were soaking wet .
I would have stood there and died there if left to myself , but Cousin Simmons grabbed my arm in his viselike grip and fairly plucked me out of there ; ;
and then I came to some sanity and plunged away with such extraordinary speed that I outdistanced Cousin Simmons by far .
Everyone else was running .
Later we realized that the redcoats had stopped their charge at the wall .
Their only hope of survival was to hold to the road and keep marching .
We tumbled to a stop in Deacon Gordon's cow hole , a low-lying bit of pasture with a muddy pool of water in its middle .
A dozen cows mooed sadly and regarded us as if we were insane , as perhaps we were at that moment , with the crazy excitement of our first encounter , the yelling and shooting still continuing up at the road , and the thirst of some of the men , which was so great that they waded into the muddy water and scooped up handfuls of it .
Isaac Pitt , one of the men from Lincoln , had taken a musket ball in his belly ; ;
and though he had found the strength to run with us , now he collapsed and lay on the ground , dying , the Reverend holding his head and wiping his hot brow .
It may appear that we were cruel and callous , but no one had time to spend sympathizing with poor Isaac -- except the Reverend .
I know that I myself felt that it was a mortal shame for a man to be torn open by a British musket ball , as Isaac had been , yet I also felt relieved and lucky that it had been him and not myself .
I was drunk with excitement and the smell of gunpowder that came floating down from the road , and the fact that I was not afraid now , but only waiting to know what to do next .
Meanwhile , I reloaded my gun , as the other men were doing .
We were less than a quarter of a mile from the road , and we could trace its shape from the ribbon of powder smoke and dust that hung over it .
Wherever you looked , you saw Committeemen running across the meadows , some away from the road , some toward it , some parallel to it ; ;
and about a mile to the west a cluster of at least fifty Militia were making their way in our direction .
Cousin Joshua and some others felt that we should march toward Lexington and take up new positions ahead of the slow-moving British column , but another group maintained that we should stick to this spot and this section of road .
I didn't offer any advice , but I certainly did not want to go back to where the officer lay with his brains dashed out .
Someone said that while we were standing here and arguing about it , the British would be gone ; ;
but Cousin Simmons said he had watched them marching west early in the morning , and moving at a much brisker pace it had still taken half an hour for their column to pass , what with the narrowness of the road and their baggage and ammunition carts .
While this was being discussed , we saw the militia to the west of us fanning out and breaking into little clusters of two and three men as they approached the road .
It was the opinion of some of us that these must be part of the Committeemen who had been in the Battle of the North Bridge , which entitled them to a sort of veteran status , and we felt that if they employed this tactic , it was likely enough the best one .
Mattathias Dover said :
`` It makes sense .
If we cluster together , the redcoats can make an advantage out of it , but there's not a blessed thing they can do with two or three of us except chase us , and we can outrun them '' .
That settled it , and we broke into parties of two and three .
Cousin Joshua Dover decided to remain with the Reverend and poor Isaac Pitt until life passed away -- and he was hurt so badly he did not seem for long in this world .
I went off with Cousin Simmons , who maintained that if he didn't see to me , he didn't know who would .
`` Good heavens , Adam '' , he said , `` I thought one thing you'd have no trouble learning is when to get out of a place '' .
`` I learned that now '' , I said .
We ran east for about half a mile before we turned back to the road , panting from the effort and soaked with sweat .
There was a clump of trees that appeared to provide cover right up to the road , and the shouting and gunfire never slackened .
Under the trees , there was a dead redcoat , a young boy with a pasty white skin and a face full of pimples , who had taken a rifle ball directly between the eyes .
Three men were around him .
They had stripped him of his musket and equipment , and now they were pulling his boots and jacket off .
Cousin Simmons grabbed one of them by the shoulder and flung him away .
`` God's name , what are you to rob the dead with the fight going on '' ! !
Cousin Simmons roared .
They tried to outface him , but Joseph Simmons was as wide as two average men , and it would have taken braver men than these were to outface him .
That summer the gambling houses were closed , despite the threats of Pierre Ameaux , a gaming-card manufacturer .
Dancing was no longer permitted in the streets .
The Bordel and other places of prostitution were emptied .
The slit breeches had to go .
Drunkenness was no longer tolerated .
In defiance , a chinless reprobate , Jake Camaret , marched down the aisle in St. Peter's one Sunday morning , followed by one of the women from the Bordel , whose dress and walk plainly showed the lack of any shame .
Plunking themselves down on the front bench , they turned to smirk at those around them .
John's first impulse was to denounce their blasphemy .
But the thought occurred that God would want this opportunity used to tell them about Him .
Calmly he opened the Bible and read of the woman at the well .
He finished the worship service as if there had been no brazen attempt to dishonor God and man .
The next morning , as the clock struck nine , he appeared at the Council meeting in the Town Hall and insisted that the couple would have to be punished if the Church was to be respected .
`` I have told you before , and I tell you again '' , Monsieur Favre said rudely .
`` Stick to the preaching of the Gospel '' ! !
John stiffened in anger .
`` That is the answer the ungodly will always make when the Church points its fingers at their sins .
I say to you that the Church will ever decry evil '' ! !
John's reply was like a declaration of war .
Monsieur Favre sat down in his high-backed stall , lips compressed , eyes glinting .
Ablard Corne , a short man with a rotunda of stomach , rose .
Every eye was on him as he began to speak .
`` What Master Calvin says is true .
How can we have a good city unless we respect morality '' ? ?
Abel Poupin , a tall man with sunken cheeks and deep-set eyes , got to his feet .
`` We all know that Jake Camaret and the woman are brazenly living together .
It would be well to show the populace how we deal with adulterers '' .
Philibert Berthelier , the son of the famous patriot , disagreed .
`` Do not listen to that Frenchman .
He is throttling the liberty my father gave his life to win '' ! !
John was quietly insistent .
`` There can be no compromise when souls are in jeopardy '' .
A week later the sentence of the Council was carried out : Jake Camaret and the woman were marched naked through the streets past a mocking populace .
Before them stalked the beadle , proclaiming as he went , `` Thus the Council deals with those who break its laws -- adulterers , thieves , murderers , and lewd persons .
Let evildoers contemplate their ways , and let every man beware '' ! !
John's thoughts raced painfully into the past as he read the letter he had just received from his sister Mary .
Charles had died two weeks before , in early November , without being reconciled to the Church .
The canons , in a body , had tried to force him on his deathbed to let them give him the last rites of the Church , but he had died still proclaiming salvation by faith .
Burial had taken place at night in the ground at the public crossroads under the gibbet , so that his enemies could not find his body and have it dug up and burned .
The Abbot of St. Eloi , Claude De Mommor , had been a good friend , but not even he thought Charles deserved burial in hallowed ground .
John closed his eyes and saw once again the little niche in his mother's bedroom , where she had knelt to tell the good Virgin of her needs .
The blue-draped Virgin was still there , but no one knelt before her now .
Not even Varnessa ; ;
she , too , prayed only to God .
For an instant John longed for the sound of the bells of Noyon-la-Sainte , the touch of his mother's hand , the lilt of Charles's voice in the square raftered rooms , his father's bass tones rumbling to the canons , and the sight of the beloved bishop .
But he had to follow the light .
Unless God expected a man to believe the Holy Scriptures , why had He given them to him ? ?
The white-clad trees stood like specters in the February night .
Snow buried the streets and covered the slanting rooftops , as John trudged toward St. Peter's .
A carriage crunched by , its dim lights filtering through the gloom .
The sharp wind slapped at him and his feet felt like ice as the snow penetrated the holes of his shoes , his only ones , now patched with folded parchment .
The city had recently given him a small salary , but it was not enough to supply even necessities .
As he neared the square , a round figure muffled in a long , black cape whisked by .
John recognized Ablard Corne and called out a greeting .
How grateful he was to such men ! !
There were several on the Council who tried to live like Christians .
Despite their efforts , the problems seemed to grow graver all the time .
Quickening his steps , John entered the vast church and climbed the tower steps to the bells .
Underneath the big one , in the silent moonlight , lay a dead pigeon , and on the smaller bell , the Clemence , two gray and white birds slept huddled together in the cold winter air .
John leaned upon the stone balustrade .
He brushed back his black hair , shoving it under his pastor's cap to keep it from blowing in his eyes .
Below the moon-splashed world rolled away to insurmountable white peaks ; ;
above him the deep blue sky glittered with stars .
He stood very still , his arms at his sides , staring up at the heavens , then down at the blinking lights below .
`` How long , my Lord ? ?
How long ? ?
I have never asked for an easy task , but I am weary of the strife '' .
Sleep was difficult these days .
Indigestion plagued him .
Severe headaches were frequent .
Loneliness tore through him like a physical pain whenever he thought of Peter Robert , Nerien , Nicholas Cop , Martin Bucer , and even the compromising Louis Du Tillet .
An occasional traveler from Italy brought news of Peter Robert , who was now distributing his Bible among the Waldensian peasants .
Letters came regularly from Nerien , Nicholas , and Martin .
He had Anthony and William to confide in and consult .
But William continued to find a bitter joy in smashing images and tearing down symbols sacred to the Old Church .
John found it difficult , but he held him in check .
And Anthony was busy most of the time courting this girl and that .
His easy good looks made him a favorite with the ladies .
Geneva , instead of becoming the City of God , as John had dreamed , had in the two years since he had been there , continued to be a godless place where all manner of vice flourished .
Refugees poured in , signing the Confession and rules in order to remain , and then disregarding them .
Dice rolled , prostitutes plied their trade , thieves stole , murderers stabbed , and the ungodly blasphemed .
Catholics who were truly Christians longed for the simple penance of days gone by .
Libertines recalled the heroism of the past and demanded : `` Are we going to allow the Protestant Pope , Master Calvin , to curtail our liberty ? ?
Why , oh why , doesn't he stick to preaching the Gospel , instead of meddling in civic affairs , politics , economics , and social issues that are no concern of the Church '' ? ?
And John's reply was always the same : `` Anything that affects souls is the concern of the Church ! !
We will have righteousness '' ! !
Tears burned behind his eyes as he prayed and meditated tonight .
Unless the confusion cleared , he would not be coming here much longer .
Monsieur Favre's threat would become a reality , for he continued to proclaim loudly that the city must rid itself of `` that Frenchman '' .
The slow tapping of a cane on the stone steps coming up to the tower interrupted his reverie .
Faint at first , the tapping grew until it sounded loud against the wind .
Eli Corault ! !
John thought .
What is he doing here at this hour ? ?
He started down the steps to meet the near-blind preacher , who had been one of the early Gospelers in Paris .
`` John ? ?
Is that you ? ?
I came to warn you of a plot '' ! !
John stood above him , his face ashen .
What now ? ?
Slowly , like a man grown old , he took Eli's hand and led him below to the tower study , guiding him to a chair beside the little hearth where a fire still burned .
`` Plot '' ? ?
John asked tiredly .
`` Monsieur Favre just paid me a visit .
I went to your rooms , and Anthony told me you were here .
Two Anabaptists , Caroli and Benoit , are to challenge you and William to a debate before the Council .
It is to be a trap .
You know the law : if you lose the debate after accepting a challenge , you will be banished '' ! !
`` What will be the subject '' ? ?
`` You are to be accused of Arianism to confuse the religious who remain loyal '' .
Anger and fear fused in John .
Ever since the fourth century a controversy had raged over the person of Christ .
Those who refused to believe that He was the eternal Son of God were termed Arianists .
Peter Caroli had come to Geneva , saying that he had been a bishop of the Church of Rome and had been persecuted in Paris for his Reformed faith .
He asked to be appointed a preacher .
But Michael Sept had unmasked him , revealing he had never been a bishop , but was an Anabaptist , afraid to state his faith , because he knew John Calvin had written a book against their belief that the soul slept after death .
So John had refused to agree to his appointment as a preacher , and now Caroli sought revenge .
John sighed .
`` If William agrees , we should insist on a public debate '' , he said at length .
`` There is more to the conspiracy .
Bern demands that the Lord's Supper be administered here as it used to be , with unleavened bread .
Furthermore , Bern decrees that we must do as we are ordered by the Council , preach only the word of God and stop meddling in politics '' ! !
`` It was always the spirit with Christ ; ;
matters such as leavened or unleavened bread are inconsequential .
Geneva must remain a sovereign state .
We will not yield to the demands of Bern '' ! !
The firelight played over Eli's flowing white locks and rugged features .
`` Monsieur Favre indicated that if I would co-operate , after you and William are banished , following the debate , I will be given a place of influence '' .
`` What was your reply to that '' ? ?
`` That I would rather be banished with two such Christians than be made the Chief Syndic '' ! !
The following morning , as John entered the Place Molard on his way to visit a sick refugee , he had a premonition of danger .
Then suddenly a group of men and dogs circled him .
He wanted to run , but he knew that if he did , he would be lost .
He stood very still , his heart thumping wildly .
On the outskirts of the rabble the Camaret brothers and Gaspard Favre shook their fists .
`` Are you going to comply with the demands of Bern '' ? ?
The chinless Jake called .
`` Arianist '' ! !
A rowdy with a big blob of a nose roared .
`` Heretic '' ! !
John lifted his hand for silence .
`` Know this : the ministers will not yield to the demands of Bern '' .
His voice shook a little .
Somebody heaved a stone .
For an instant John was stunned .
When he felt the side of his head , his fingers came away covered with blood .
Before he could duck , another stone struck him .
And another .
`` Let him be now '' ! !
Pierre Ameaux , the gaming-card manufacturer said , his little pig eyes glaring .
`` We have taught him a lesson '' .
The crowd moved back and John started dizzily down the hill .
Fists pummeled him as he staggered forward .
Then he slipped and went down on his hands and knees in the melting snow .
At once a bevy of dogs was snapping and snarling around him .
One , more horrible than the rest , lunged , growling deep in his throat , his hair bristling .
With great difficulty John clambered to his feet and started to run , sweat pouring down his face .
Standing in the shelter of the tent -- a rejected hospital tent on which the rain now dripped , no longer drumming -- Adam watched his own hands touch the objects on the improvised counter of boards laid across two beer barrels .
There was , of course , no real need to rearrange everything .
A quarter inch this way or that for the hardbake , or the toffee , or the barley sugar , or the sardines , or the bitters , or the condensed milk , or the stationery , or the needles -- what could it mean ? ?
Adam watched his own hands make the caressing , anxious movement that , when rain falls and nobody comes , and ruin draws close like a cat rubbing against the ankles , has been the ritual of stall vendors , forever .
He recognized the gesture .
He knew its meaning .
He had seen a dry , old , yellowing hand reach out , with that painful solicitude , to touch , to rearrange , to shift aimlessly , some object worth a pfennig .
Back in Bavaria he had seen that gesture , and at that sight his heart had always died within him .
On such occasions he had not had the courage to look at the face above the hand , whatever face it might be .
Now the face was his own .
He wondered what expression , as he made that gesture , was on his face .
He wondered if it wore the old anxiety , or the old , taut stoicism .
But there was no need , he remembered , for his hand to reach out , for his face to show concern or stoicism .
It was nothing to him if rain fell and nobody came .
Then why was he assuming the role -- the gesture and the suffering ? ?
What was he expiating ? ?
Or was he now taking the role -- the gesture and the suffering -- because it was the only way to affirm his history and identity in the torpid , befogged loneliness of this land .
This was Virginia .
He looked out of the tent at the company street .
The rain dripped on the freezing loblolly of the street .
Beyond that misty gray of the rain , he saw the stretching hutment , low diminutive log cabins , chinked with mud , with doorways a man would have to crouch to get through , with roofs of tenting laid over boughs or boards from hardtack boxes , or fence rails , with cranky chimneys of sticks and dried mud .
The chimney of the hut across from him was surmounted by a beef barrel with ends knocked out .
In this heavy air , however , that device did not seem to help .
The smoke from that chimney rose as sluggishly as smoke from any other , and hung as sadly in the drizzle , creeping back down along the sopping canvas of the roof .
Over the door was a board with large , inept lettering : home sweet home .
This was the hut of Simms Purdew , the hero .
The men were huddled in those lairs .
Adam knew the names of some .
He knew the faces of all , hairy or shaven , old or young , fat or thin , suffering or hardened , sad or gay , good or bad .
When they stood about his tent , chaffing each other , exchanging their obscenities , cursing command or weather , he had studied their faces .
He had had the need to understand what life lurked behind the mask of flesh , behind the oath , the banter , the sadness .
Once covertly looking at Simms Purdew , the only man in the world whom he hated , he had seen the heavy , slack , bestubbled jaw open and close to emit the cruel , obscene banter , and had seen the pale-blue eyes go watery with whisky and merriment , and suddenly he was not seeing the face of that vile creature .
He was seeing , somehow , the face of a young boy , the boy Simms Purdew must once have been , a boy with sorrel hair , and blue eyes dancing with gaiety , and the boy mouth grinning trustfully among the freckles .
In that moment of vision Adam heard the voice within himself saying : I must not hate him , I must not hate him or I shall die .
His heart suddenly opened to joy .
He thought that if once , only once , he could talk with Simms Purdew , something about his own life , and all life , would be clear and simple .
If Simms Purdew would turn to him and say : `` Adam , you know when I was a boy , it was a funny thing happened .
Lemme tell you now '' --
If only Simms Purdew could do that , whatever the thing he remembered and told .
It would be a sign for the untellable , and he , Adam , would understand .
Now , Adam , in the gray light of afternoon , stared across at the hut opposite his tent , and thought of Simms Purdew lying in there in the gloom , snoring on his bunk , with the fumes of whisky choking the air .
He saw the sign above the door of the hut : home sweet home .
He saw the figure of a man in a poncho coming up the company street , with an armful of wood .
It was Pullen James , the campmate of Simms Purdew .
He carried the wood , carried the water , did the cooking , cleaning and mending , and occasionally got a kick in the butt for his pains .
Adam watched the moisture flow from the poncho .
It gave the rubberized fabric a dull gleam , like metal .
Pullen James humbly lowered his head , pushed aside the hardtack-box door of the hut , and was gone from sight .
Adam stared at the door and remembered that Simms Purdew had been awarded the Medal of Honor for gallantry at Antietam .
The street was again empty .
The drizzle was slacking off now , but the light was grayer .
With enormous interest , Adam watched his hands as they touched and shifted the objects on the board directly before him .
Into the emptiness of the street , and his spirit , moved a form .
The form was swathed in an army blanket , much patched , fastened at the neck with a cord .
From under the shapeless huddle of blanket the feet moved in the mud .
The feet wore army shoes , in obvious disrepair .
The head was wrapped in a turban and on top of the turban rode a great hamper across which a piece of poncho had been flung .
The gray face stared straight ahead in the drizzle .
Moisture ran down the cheeks , gathered at the tip of the nose , and at the chin .
The figure was close enough now for him to see the nose twitching to dislodge the drop clinging there .
The figure stopped and one hand was perilously freed from the hamper to scratch the nose .
Then the figure moved on .
This was one of the Irish women who had built their own huts down near the river .
They did washing .
Adam recognized this one .
He recognized her because she was the one who , in a winter twilight , on the edge of camp , had once stopped him and reached down her hand to touch his fly .
`` Slice o' mutton , bhoy '' ? ?
She had queried in her soft guttural .
`` Slice o' mutton '' ? ?
Her name was Mollie .
They called her Mollie the Mutton , and laughed .
Looking down the street after her , Adam saw that she had again stopped and again removed one hand from the basket .
He could not make out , but he knew that again she was scratching her nose .
Mollie the Mutton was scratching her nose .
The words ran crazily in his head : Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose in the rain .
Then the words fell into a pattern : `` Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose , Scratching her nose in the rain .
Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose in the rain '' .
The pattern would not stop .
It came again and again .
He felt trapped in that pattern , in the repetition .
Suddenly he thought he might weep .
`` What's the matter with me '' ? ?
He demanded out loud .
He looked wildly around , at the now empty street , at the mud , at the rain .
`` Oh , what's the matter with me '' ? ?
He demanded .
When he had stored his stock in the great oak chest , locked the two big hasps and secured the additional chain , tied the fly of the tent , and picked up the cash box , he moved up the darkening street .
He would consign the cash box into the hands of Jed Hawksworth , then stand by while his employer checked the contents and the list of items sold .
Then he --
Then what ? ?
He did not know .
His mind closed on that prospect , as though fog had descended to blot out a valley .
Far off , in the dusk , he heard voices singing , muffled but strong .
In one of the huts a group of men were huddled together , singing .
He stopped .
He strained to hear .
He heard the words : `` Rock of Ages , cleft for me , Let me hide myself in Thee ! !
Let the water and the blood From Thy riven side flow ! !
''
He thought : I am a Jew from Bavaria .
He was standing there , he thought , in Virginia , in the thickening dusk , in a costly greatcoat that had belonged to another Jew .
That other Jew , a young man too , had left that greatcoat behind , in a rich house , and marched away .
He had crossed the river which now , beyond the woods yonder , was sliding darkly under the mist .
He had plunged into the dark woods beyond .
He had died there .
What had that man , that other young Jew , felt as he stood in the twilight and heard other men , far away , singing together ? ?
Adam thought of the hutments , regiment after regiment , row after row , the thousands of huts , stretching away into the night .
He thought of the men , the nameless thousands , huddling in them .
He thought of Simms Purdew snoring on his bunk while Pullen James crouched by the hearth , skirmishing an undershirt for lice , and a wet log sizzled .
He thought of Simms Purdew , who once had risen at the edge of a cornfield , a maniacal scream on his lips , and swung a clubbed musket like a flail to beat down the swirl of Rebel bayonets about him .
He thought of Simms Purdew rising up , fearless in glory .
He felt the sweetness of pity flood through him , veining his very flesh .
Those men , lying in the huts , they did not know .
They did not know who they were or know their own worth .
In the pity for them his loneliness was gone .
Then he thought of Aaron Blaustein standing in his rich house saying : `` God is tired of taking the blame .
He is going to let History take the blame for a while '' .
He thought of the old man laughing under the glitter of the great chandelier .
He thought : Only in my heart can I make the world hang together .
Adam rose from the crouch necessary to enter the hut .
He saw Mose squatting by the hearth , breaking up hardtack into a pan .
A pot was boiling on the coals .
`` Gonna give Ole Buckra all his money '' ? ?
Mose asked softly .
Adam nodded .
`` Yeah '' , Mose murmured , `` yeah .
And look what he done give us '' .
Adam looked at the pot .
`` What is it '' ? ?
He asked .
`` Chicken '' , Mose said , and theatrically licked his lips .
`` Gre't big fat chicken , yeah '' .
He licked his lips again .
Then : `` yeah .
A chicken with six tits and a tail lak a corkscrew .
And it squealed for slop '' .
Mose giggled .
`` Fooled you , huh ? ?
It is the same ole same , tell me its name .
It is sowbelly with tits on .
It is salt po'k .
It is salt po'k and skippers .
That po'k , it was so full of skippers it would jump and run and not come when you say , hoo-pig .
Had to put my foot on it to hole it down while I cut it up fer the lob-scuse '' .
He dumped the pan of crumbled hardtack into the boiling pot of lobscouse .
`` Good ole lob-scuse '' , he mumbled , and stirred the pot .
He stopped stirring and looked over his shoulder .
`` Know what Ole Buckra et tonight '' ? ?
He demanded .
`` Know what I had to fix fer Ole Him '' ? ?
Adam shook his head .
`` Chicken '' , Mose said .
She was a child too much a part of her environment , too eager to grow and learn and experience .
Once , they were at Easthampton for the summer ( again , Fritzie said , a good place , even though they were being robbed ) .
One soft evening -- that marvelous sea-blessed time when the sun's departing warmth lingers and a smell of spume and wrack haunts everything -- Amy had picked herself off the floor and begun to walk .
Fritzie was on the couch reading ; ;
Laura was sitting in an easy chair about eight feet away .
The infant , in white terry-cloth bathrobe , her face intense and purposeful , had essayed a few wobbly steps toward her father .
`` Y'all wanna walk -- walk '' , he said .
Then , gently , he shoved her behind toward Laura .
Amy walked -- making it halfway across the cottage floor .
She lost not a second , picking herself up and continuing her pilgrimage to Laura .
Then Laura took her gently and shoved her off again , toward Fritzie : Amy did not laugh -- this was work , concentration , achievement .
In a few minutes she was making the ten-foot hike unaided ; ;
soon she was parading around the house , flaunting her new skill .
Some liar's logic , a wisp of optimism as fragile as the scent of tropical blossoms that came through the window ( a euphoria perhaps engendered by the pill Fritzie had given her ) , consoled her for a moment .
Amy had to be safe , had to come back to them -- if only to reap that share of life's experiences that were her due , if only to give her parents another chance to do better by her .
Through the swathings of terror , she jabbed deceit's sharp point -- Amy would be reborn , a new child , with new parents , living under new circumstances .
The comfort was short-lived , yet she found herself returning to the assurance whenever her imagination forced images on her too awful to contemplate without the prop of illusion .
Gazing at her husband's drugged body , his chest rising and falling in mindless rhythms , she saw the grandeur of his fictional world , that lush garden from which he plucked flowers and herbs .
She envied him .
She admired him .
In the darkness , she saw him stirring .
He seemed to be muttering , his voice surprisingly clear .
`` Y'all should have let me take that money out '' , Andrus said .
`` 'nother minute I'd have been fine .
H'all should have let me do it '' .
Laura touched his hand .
`` Yes , I know , Fritzie .
I should have '' .
Tuesday
The heat intensified on Tuesday .
Southern California gasped and blinked under an autumn hot spell , drier , more enervating , more laden with man's contrived impurities than the worst days of the summer past .
It could continue this way , hitting 106 and more in the Valley , Joe McFeeley knew , into October .
He and Irvin Moll were sipping coffee at the breakfast bar .
Both had been up since 7:00 -- Irv on the early-morning watch , McFeeley unable to sleep during his four-hour relief .
The night before , they had telephoned the Andrus maid , Selena Masters , and she had arrived early , bursting her vigorous presence into the silent house with an assurance that amused McFeeley and confounded Moll .
The latter , thanking her for the coffee , had winked and muttered , `` Sure 'nuff , honey '' .
Selena was the wrong woman for these crudities .
With a hard eye , she informed Moll : `` Don't sure 'nuff me , officer .
I'm honey only to my husband , understand '' ? ?
Sergeant Moll understood .
The maid was very black and very energetic , trim in a yellow pique uniform .
Her speech was barren of southernisms ; ;
she was one of Eliot Sparling's neutralized minorities , adopting the rolling R's and constricted vowels of Los Angeles .
Not seeing her dark intelligent face , one would have gauged the voice as that of a Westwood Village matron , ten years out of Iowa .
After she had served the detectives coffee and toast ( they politely declined eggs , uncomfortable about their tenancy ) , she settled down with a morning newspaper and began reading the stock market quotations .
While she was thus engaged , McFeeley questioned her about her whereabouts the previous day , any recollections she had of people hanging around , of overcurious delivery boys or repairmen , of strange cars cruising the neighborhood .
She answered him precisely , missing not a beat in her scrutiny of the financial reports .
Selena Masters , Joe realized , was her own woman .
She was the only kind of Negro Laura Andrus would want around : independent , unservile , probably charging double what ordinary maids did for housework -- and doubly efficient .
When the parents emerged from the bedroom a few minutes later , the maid greeted them quietly .
`` I'm awful sorry about what's happened '' , Selena said .
`` Maybe today'll be a good-news day '' .
She charged off to the bedrooms .
Moll took his coffee into the nursery .
During the night , a phone company technician had deadened the bells and installed red blinkers on the phones .
Someone would have to remain in the office continually .
McFeeley greeted the parents , then studied his notebook .
He wanted to take the mother to headquarters at once and start her on the mug file .
`` Sleep well '' ? ?
He asked .
Andrus did not answer him .
His face was bloated with drugging , redder than normal .
The woman had the glassy look of an invalid , as if she had not slept at all .
`` Oh -- we managed '' , she said .
`` I'm a little groggy .
Did anything happen during the night '' ? ?
`` Few crank calls '' , McFeeley said .
`` A couple of tips we're running down -- nothing promising .
We can expect more of the same .
Too bad your number is in the directory '' .
`` Didn't occur to me my child would be kidnaped when I had it listed '' , Andrus muttered .
He settled on the sofa with his coffee , warming his hands on the cup , although the room was heavy with heat .
The three had little to say to each other .
The previous night's horror -- the absolute failure , overcast with the intrusions of the press , had left them all with a wan sense of uselessness , of play-acting .
Sipping their coffee , discussing the weather , the day's shopping , Fritzie's commitments at the network ( all of which he would cancel ) , they avoided the radio , the morning TV news show , even the front page of the Santa Luisa Register , resting on the kitchen bar .
Kidnaper spurns ransom ; ;
Amy still missing .
Once , Andrus walked by it , hastily scanned the bold black headline and the five-column lead of the article ( by Duane Bosch , staff correspondent -- age not given ) , and muttered : `` We a buncha national celebrities '' .
McFeeley told the parents he would escort them to police headquarters in a half hour .
Before that , he wanted to talk to the neighbors .
He did not want to bring the Andruses to the station house too early -- Rheinholdt had summoned a press conference , and he didn't want them subjected to the reporters again .
He could think of nothing else to tell them : no assurances , no hopeful hints at great discoveries that day .
When the detective left , Andrus phoned his secretary to cancel his work and to advise the network to get a substitute director for his current project .
Mrs. Andrus was talking to the maid , arranging for her to come in every day , instead of the four days she now worked .
Outside , only a handful of reporters remained .
The bulk of the press corps was covering Rheinholdt's conference .
In contrast to the caravan of the previous night , there were only four cars parked across the street .
Two men he did not recognize were sipping coffee and munching sweet rolls .
He did not see Sparling , or DeGroot , or Ringel , or any of the feverish crew that had so harassed him twelve hours ago .
However , the litter remained , augmented by several dozen lunchroom suppers .
The street cleaner had not yet been around .
One of the reporters called to him : `` Anything new , Lieutenant '' ? ?
And he ignored him , skirting the parked cars and walking up the path to the Skopas house .
When McFeeley was halfway to the door , the proprietor emerged -- a mountainous , dark man , his head thick with resiny black hair , his eyes like two of the black olives he imported in boatloads .
McFeeley identified himself .
The master of the house , his nourished face unrevealing , consented to postpone his departure a few minutes to talk to the detective .
Inside , as soon as Mr. Skopas had disclosed -- in a hoarse whisper -- the detective's errand , his family gathered in a huddle , forming a mass of dark flesh on and around a brocaded sofa which stood at one side of a baroque fireplace .
Flanked by marble urns and alabaster lamps , they seemed to be posing for a tribal portrait .
It was amazing how they had herded together for protection : an enormous matriarch in a quilted silk wrapper , rising from the breakfast table ; ;
a gross boy in his teens , shuffling in from the kitchen with a sandwich in his hands ; ;
a girl in her twenties , fat and sullen , descending the marble staircase ; ;
then all four gathering on the sofa to face the inquisitor .
They answered him in monosyllables , nods , occasionally muttering in Greek to one another , awaiting the word from Papa , who restlessly cracked his knuckles , anxious to stuff himself into his white Cadillac and burst off to the freeway .
No , they hadn't seen anyone around ; ;
no , they didn't know the Andrus family ; ;
yes , they had read about the case ; ;
yes , they had let some reporters use their phone , but they would no longer .
They offered no opinions , volunteered nothing , betrayed no emotions .
Studying them , McFeeley could not help make comparison with the Andrus couple .
The Skopas people seemed to him of that breed of human beings whose insularity frees them from tragedy .
He imagined they were the kind whose tax returns were never examined ( if they were , they were never penalized ) , whose children had no unhappy romances , whose names never knew scandal .
The equation was simple : wealth brought them happiness , and their united front to the world was their warning that they meant to keep everything they had , let no one in on the secrets .
By comparison , Fritzie and Laura Andrus were quivering fledglings .
They possessed no outer fortifications , no hard shells of confidence ; ;
they had enough difficulty getting from day to day , let alone having an awful crime thrust upon them .
Skopas expressed no curiosity over the case , offered no expression of sympathy , made no move to escort McFeely to the door .
All four remained impacted on the sofa until he had left .
He had spoken to Mrs. .
Emerson the previous day .
There remained a family named Kahler , owners of a two-story Tudor-style house on the south side of the Andrus home .
Their names had not come up in any discussions with Laura , and he had no idea what they would be like .
McFeeley noted the immaculate lawn and gardens : each blade of grass cropped , bright and firm ; ;
each shrub glazed with good health .
