The importance of this 5 can largely be explained by the natural mathematical properties of the middle number and its special relationship to all the rest of the numbers -- quite apart from any numerological considerations , which is to say , any symbolic meaning arbitrarily assigned to it .
Indeed , mathematically speaking , it was both functionally and symbolically the most important number in the entire diagram .
If one takes the middle number , 5 , and multiplies it by 3 ( the base number of the magic square of three ) , the result is 15 , which is also the constant sum of all the rows , columns , and two main diagonals .
Then , if the middle number is activated to its greatest potential in terms of this square , through multiplying it by the highest number , 9 ( which is the square of the base number ) , the result is 45 ; ;
and the latter is the total sum of all the numbers in the square , by which all the other numbers are overshadowed and in which they may be said to be absorbed .
Furthermore , the middle number of the Lo Shu is not only the physical mean between every opposing pair of the other numbers , by reason of its central position ; ;
it is also their mathematical mean , since it is equal to half the sum of every opposing pair , all of which equal 10 .
In fact , the neat balance of these pairs , and their subtle equilibrium , would have had special meaning in the minds of the Old Chinese .
For they considered the odd numbers as male and the even ones as female , equating the two groups with the Yang and Yin principles in Nature ; ;
and in this square , the respective pairs made up of large and small odd ( Yang ) numbers , and those composed of large and small even ( Yin ) numbers , were all equal to each other .
Thus all differences were leveled , and all contrasts erased , in a realm of no distinction , and the harmonious balance of the Lo Shu square could effectively symbolize the world in balanced harmony around a powerful central axis .
The tremendous emphasis on the 5 in the Lo Shu square -- for purely mathematical reasons -- and the fact that this number so neatly symbolized the heart and center of the universe , could well explain why the Old Chinese seem to have so revered the number 5 , and why they put so much stress on the concept of Centrality .
These twin tendencies seem to have reached their height in the Han dynasty .
The existing reverence for Centrality must have been still further stimulated toward the close of the second century B.C. , when the Han Emperor Wu Ti ordered the dynastic color changed to yellow -- which symbolized the Center among the traditional Five Directions -- and took 5 as the dynastic number , believing that he would thus place himself , his imperial family , and the nation under the most auspicious influences .
His immediate motive for doing this may not have been directly inspired by the Lo Shu , but this measure must inevitably have increased the existing beliefs in the latter's efficacy .
After this time , inscriptions on the Han bronze mirrors , as well as other writings , emphasized the desirability of keeping one's self at the center of the universe , where cosmic forces were strongest .
Later , we shall see what happened when an emperor took this idea too literally .
All this emphasis on Centrality and on the number 5 as a symbolic expression of the Center , which seems to have begun as far back as 400 B.C. , also may conceivably have led to the development of the Five-Elements School and the subsequent efforts to fit everything into numerical categories of five .
We find , for example , such groupings as the Five Ancient Rulers , the Five Sacred Mountains , the Five Directions ( with Center ) , the Five Metals , Five Colors , Five Tastes , Five Odors , Five Musical Notes , Five Bodily Functions , Five Viscera , and many others .
This trend has often been ascribed to the cult of the Five Elements itself , as though they had served as the base for all the rest ; ;
but why did the Old Chinese postulate five elements , when the Ancient Near East -- which may have initiated the idea that natural elements exerted influence in human life and activities -- recognized only four ? ?
And why did the Chinese suddenly begin to talk about the Five Directions , when the animals they used as symbols of the directions designated only the usual four ? ?
Obviously , something suddenly caused them to start thinking in terms of fives , and that may have been the workings of the Lo Shu .
This whole tendency had an unfortunate effect on Chinese thinking .
Whereas the primary meanings of the Lo Shu diagram seemed to have been based on its inner mathematical properties -- and we shall see that even its secondary meanings rested on some mathematical bases -- the urgent desire to place everything into categories of fives led to other groupings based on other numbers , until an exaggerated emphasis on mere numerology pervaded Chinese thought .
Scholars made numbered sets of as many things as possible in Nature , or assigned arbitrary numbers to individual things , in a fashion that seems to the modern scientific mind as downright nonsensical , and philosophical ideas based upon all this tended to stifle speculative thought in China for many centuries .
3 .
Yin and Yang in the `` Lo Shu '' square
Although the primary mathematical properties of the middle number at the center of the Lo Shu , and the interrelation of all the other numbers to it , might seem enough to account for the deep fascination which the Lo Shu held for the Old Chinese philosophers , this was actually only a beginning of wonders .
For the Lo Shu square was a remarkably complete compendium of most of the chief religious and philosophical ideas of its time .
As such , one cannot fully understand the thought of the pre-Han and Han periods without knowing the meanings inherent in the Lo Shu ; ;
but , conversely , one cannot begin to understand the Lo Shu without knowing something about the world view of the Old Chinese , which they felt they saw expressed in it .
The Chinese world view during the Han dynasty , when the Lo Shu seems to have been at the height of its popularity , was based in large part on the teachings of the Yin-Yang and Five-Elements School , which was traditionally founded by Tsou Yen .
According to this doctrine , the universe was ruled by Heaven , T'ien -- as a natural force , or in the personification of a Supreme Sky-god -- governing all things by means of a process called the Tao , which can be roughly interpreted as `` the Order of the Universe '' or `` the Universal Way '' .
Heaven , acting through the Tao , expressed itself by means of the workings of two basic principles , the Yin and the Yang .
The Yang , or male principle , was the source of light , heat , and dynamic vitality , associated with the Sun ; ;
while the Yin , or female principle , flourished in darkness , cold , and quiet inactivity , and was associated with the Moon .
Together these two principles influenced all things , and in varying combinations they were present in everything .
We have already seen that odd numbers were considered as being Yang , while the even numbers were Yin , so that the eight outer numbers of the Lo Shu represented these two principles in balanced equilibrium around the axial center .
During the Han dynasty , another Yin-Yang conception was applied to the Lo Shu , considering the latter as a plan of Ancient China .
Instead of linking the nine numbers of this diagram with the traditional Nine Provinces , as was usually done , this equated the odd , Yang numbers with mountains ( firm and resistant , hence Yang ) and the even numbers with rivers ( sinuous and yielding , hence Yin ) ; ;
taking the former from the Five Sacred Mountains of the Han period and the latter from the principal river systems of Old China .
Thus the middle number , 5 , represented Sung-Shan in Honan , Central China ; ;
the 3 , T'ai-Shan in Shantung , East China ; ;
the 7 , Hwa-Shan in Shensi , West China ; ;
the 1 , Heng-Shan in Hopei , North China ( or the mountain with the same name in neighboring Shansi ) ; ;
and the 9 , Huo-Shan in Anhwei , which was then the South Sacred Mountain .
For the rivers , the 4 represented the Huai , to the ( then ) Southeast ; ;
the 2 , the San Kiang ( three rivers ) in the ( then ) Southwest ; ;
the 8 , the Chi in the Northeast ; ;
and the 6 , the ( upper ) Yellow River in the Northwest .
Note that by Western standards this plan was `` upside down '' , as it put North at the bottom and South at the top , with the other directions correspondingly altered ; ;
but in this respect it was merely following the accepted Chinese convention for all maps .
The same arrangement was used when the Lo Shu was equated with the Nine Provinces ; ;
and whenever the Lo Shu involved directional symbolism , it was oriented in this same fashion .
Few persons who join the Church are insincere .
They earnestly desire to do the will of God .
When they fall by the wayside and fail to achieve Christian stature , it is an indictment of the Church .
These fatalities are dramatic evidence of `` halfway evangelism '' , a failure to follow through .
A program of Lay Visitation Evangelism can end in dismal defeat with half the new members drifting away unless practical plans and strenuous efforts are made to keep them in the active fellowship .
The work of Lay Visitation Evangelism is not completed when all of the persons on the Responsibility List have been interviewed .
In the average situation about one-third of those visited make commitments to Christ and the Church .
The pastor and the Membership Preparation and Assimilation Committee must follow through immediately with a carefully planned program .
The first thirty to sixty days after individuals make their decision will determine their interest and participation in the life of the Church .
Neglect means spiritual paralysis or death .
Preparation for membership
churches that have a carefully planned program of membership preparation and assimilation often keep 85 to 90 per cent of their new members loyal and active .
This is the answer to the problem of `` membership delinquency '' .
It is important that persons desiring to unite with the Church be prepared for this experience so that it may be meaningful and spiritually significant .
It is unfair and unchristian to ask a person to take the sacred vows of Church membership before he has been carefully instructed concerning their implications .
Preparation for Church membership begins immediately after the commitment is received .
1 )
The pastor writes a personal letter to each individual , expressing his joy over the decision , assuring him of a pastoral call at the earliest convenient time , and outlining the plan for membership preparation classes and Membership Sunday .
Some pastors write a letter the same night the decision is reported by the visitors .
It should not be postponed later than the next day .
A helpful leaflet may be enclosed in the letter .
2 )
The pastor calls in the home of each individual or family for a spiritual guidance conference .
If possible , he should make an appointment in order that all persons involved may be present .
This is not a social call .
It is definitely a `` spiritual guidance conference '' .
He will discuss the significance of Christian commitment , the necessity of family religion and private devotions , and the importance of the membership preparation sessions .
There may be problems of conduct or questions of belief which will require his counsel .
Each conference should be concluded naturally with prayer .
A piece of devotional material , such as The Upper Room , may be left in each home .
3 )
A minimum of four sessions of preparation for membership is necessary for adults .
Some churches require more .
None should ask less .
Those who join the Church need to be instructed in the faith and the meaning of Christian discipleship before they take the sacred vows .
They will have a greater appreciation for the Church and a deeper devotion to it if membership requires something of them .
Many churches find the Sunday school hour to be the most practical time for adult preparation classes .
Others meet on Sunday night , at the mid-week service , or for a series of four nights .
Some pastors have two sessions in one evening , with a refreshment period between .
The sessions should cover four major areas : A
-- The Christian Faith ; ;
B
-- History of the Church ; ;
C
-- Duties of Church Membership ; ;
D
-- The Local Church and Its Program
.
Following each instruction period a piece of literature dealing with the topic should be handed each one for further reading during the week .
This procedure is much more effective than giving out a membership packet .
Fourth session important
most pastors find that the fourth session should take at least two hours and therefore hold it on a week night prior to Reception Sunday .
In this session the persons seeking membership are provided information concerning the work of the denomination as well as the program and activities of the local church .
The lay leadership of the church may be invited to speak on the various phases of church life , service opportunities , the church school , missions , men's work , women's work , youth program , social activities , and finances .
The budget of the church may be presented and pledges solicited at this session .
An `` interest finder '' or `` talent sheet '' may be filled out by each person .
( See sample on pp. 78-79 .
) The fourth session may be concluded with a tour of the church facilities and refreshments .
The social time gives an opportunity for church leaders to become acquainted with the new members .
Additional suggestions for membership preparation
in conducting the Membership Preparation-Inquirers' Class , the pastor should plan a variety of teaching techniques in order to develop greater interest on the part of the class .
The following have been found effective .
1 )
Extend the number of classes .
Some churches have six or more training sessions of two hours each , generally held on Sunday night or during the week .
This gives greater opportunity for the learning process .
2 )
Use dramatization -- for example , in discussing the Lord's Supper or church symbolism .
3 )
Use audio-visual aids .
Some excellent filmstrips with recordings and motion pictures may be secured from your denominational headquarters to enrich the class session .
4 )
Have a `` Question Box '' .
Some new members will hesitate to ask questions audibly .
Urge them to write out their questions for the box .
5 )
Use a textbook with assigned readings each week .
6 )
Select class members for reports on various phases of the study .
7 )
Conduct examinations , using a true-false check sheet .
8 )
Ask each member to write a statement on such topics as : `` What Christ Means To Me '' , `` What The Church Means To Me '' , `` Why Join The Church '' , `` The Duties Of Church Members '' , etc. .
9 )
Assign a series of catechism questions to be memorized .
10 )
Invite class members to share in an extra period of Bible study each week .
11 )
Ask each new member to bring his Pledge of Loyalty to the Reception Service .
What about transfers ? ?
There is A growing conviction among pastors and Church leaders that all those who come into the fellowship of the Church need preparatory training , including those coming by transfer of membership .
George E. Sweazey writes : `` There is danger in trying to make admission to the Church so easy and painless that people will scarcely know that anything has happened '' .
People appreciate experiences that demand something of them .
Those who transfer their membership are no exception to the rule .
For most of them , it will be their first experience in membership training , since this is a recent development in many churches .
Those coming from other denominations will welcome the opportunity to become informed .
The preparatory class is an introductory face-to-face group in which new members become acquainted with one another .
It provides a natural transition into the life of the local church and its organizations .
Reception into the Church Fellowship
the total process of evangelism reaches the crescendo when the group of new members stands before the congregation to declare publicly their faith and to be received into the fellowship of the Church .
This should be a high moment in their lives , a never-to-be-forgotten experience .
They should sense the tremendous significance of joining the spiritual succession reaching back to Christ our Lord and forward to an eternal fellowship with the saints of the ages .
Every detail of the service merits careful attention -- the hymns , the sermon , the ritual , the right hand of fellowship , the introduction to the congregation , the welcome of the congregation .
This is a vital part of their spiritual growth and assimilation .
It will help to determine the attitude of the new members toward the Church .
It can mean the difference between participation and inaction , spiritual growth and decay .
The worship service is the natural and logical time to receive new members into the Church .
The atmosphere for this momentous experience can be created most effectively through the worship experience .
Psychologically the reception should be the climax , following the sermon .
1 )
Ask the new members to meet thirty minutes before the service to complete `` talent sheets '' and pledge cards .
Some denominations ask new members to sign personally the chronological membership register .
Provide a name card for each new member .
Outline plans for the entire service .
2 )
Arrange a reserved section in the sanctuary where all new members may sit together .
Sponsors may sit with them also .
3 )
Invite sponsors or Fellowship Friends to stand back of the new members in the reception service .
4 )
Give each new member a certificate of membership .
5 )
Introduce each new member to the congregation , asking him to face the congregation .
6 )
Lead the congregation in a response of welcome .
7 )
Have a reception for new members in the parlor or social hall immediately after the service .
8 )
Take a picture of the group of new members to be put in the church paper or placed on the bulletin board .
9 )
Have a fellowship luncheon or dinner with new members as guests .
Chapter 6 planning for the assimilation and growth of new members
the church is `` the family of God '' .
The members of the `` family '' are drawn together by a common love for Christ and a sincere devotion to His Kingdom .
Every member of the family must have a vital place in its life .
This is no spectator-type experience ; ;
everyone is to be a participant .
Yet the most difficult problem in the Church's program of evangelism is right at this point -- helping new members to become participating , growing parts of the fellowship .
Very easily they may be neglected and eventually join the ranks of the unconcerned and inactive .
A study of major denominational membership statistics over a twenty-year period revealed the appalling fact that nearly 40 per cent of those who joined the Church were lost to the Church within seven years .
One denomination had a membership of 1,419,833 at the beginning of the period under study , and twenty years later its membership stood at 1,541,991 -- a net growth of only 122,158 .
Yet during the same period there were 1,080,062 additions .
Another major church body had 4,499,608 members and twenty years later its membership stood at 4,622,444 .
During this time 4,122,354 new members were brought into the fellowship .
Still another denomination had 7,360,187 members twenty years ago .
During this period 7,484,268 members were received , yet the net membership now is only 9,910,741 .
These figures indicate that we are losing almost as many as we are receiving into membership .
This problem is illustrated by the fact that many local churches drop from the active membership rolls each year as many as they receive into the fellowship .
Studies of membership trends , even in some areas where population is expanding , show that numbers of churches have had little net increase , though many new members were received .
Something is wrong when these things happen .
The local `` family of God '' has failed its new members through neglect and unconcern for their spiritual welfare .
Basic needs
new members can become participating , growing members .
But this will not happen merely through the natural process of social life .
It must be planned and carefully developed .
The entire membership of the local church must be alerted to their part in this dynamic process .
If the church has followed the plan of cultivation of prospects and carried through a program of membership preparation as outlined earlier in this book , the process of assimilation and growth will be well under way .
Those who enter the front door of the church intelligently and with Christian dedication will not so easily step through the back door because of lost interest .
However , it is not enough to bring persons to Christian commitment and train them in the meaning of Christian discipleship .
When they unite with the Church they must find in this fellowship the satisfaction of their basic spiritual needs or they will never mature into effective Christians .
The Church expects certain things of those who become members .
The new members justifiably expect some things from their church family :
-- Welcome into the fellowship
-- Sincere Christian love and understanding
-- Inspiring and challenging worship experiences
-- Social and recreational activities
-- Opportunities for Christian service
-- Opportunities for study of the Christian faith and the Bible
-- Creative prayer experiences
-- Guidance in Christian social concerns .
Men need unity and they need God .
Care must be taken neither to confuse unity with uniformity nor God with our parochial ideas about him , but with these two qualifications , the statement stands .
The statement also points to a classic paradox : The more men turn toward God , who is not only in himself the paradigm of all unity but also the only ground on which human unity can ultimately be established , the more men splinter into groups and set themselves apart from one another .
To be reminded of this we need only glance at the world map and note the extent to which religious divisions have compounded political ones , with a resultant fragmentation of the human race .
Massacres attending the partition of India and the establishment of the State of Israel are simply recent grim evidences of the hostility such divisions can engender .
The words of Cardinal Newman come forcibly to mind : `` Oh how we hate one another for the love of God '' ! !
The source of this paradox is not difficult to identify .
It lies in institutions .
Institutions require structure , form , and definition , and these in turn entail differentiation and exclusion .
A completely amorphous institution would be a contradiction in terms ; ;
to escape this fate , it must rule some things out .
For every criterion which defines what something is , at the same time proclaims -- implicitly if not openly -- what that something is not .
Some persons are so sensitive to this truth as to propose that we do away with institutions altogether ; ;
in the present context this amounts to the advice that while being religious may have a certain justification , we ought to dispense with churches .
The suggestion is naive .
Man is at once a gregarious animal and a form-creating being .
Having once committed himself to an ideal which he considers worthwhile , he inevitably creates forms for its expression and institutions for its continuance .
To propose that men be religious without having religious institutions is like proposing that they be learned without having schools .
Both eventualities are possible logically , but practically they are impossible .
As much as men intrinsically need the unity that is grounded in God , they instrumentally require the institutions that will direct their steps toward him .
Yet the fact remains that such institutions do set men at odds with their fellows .
Is there any way out of the predicament ? ?
The only way that I can see is through communication .
Interfaith communication need not be regarded as an unfortunate burden visited upon us by the necessity of maintaining diplomatic relations with our adversaries .
Approached creatively , it is a high art .
It is the art of relating the finite to the infinite , of doing our best to insure that the particularistic requirements of religious institutions will not thwart God's intent of unity among men more than is minimally necessary .
In a certain sense , interfaith communication parallels diplomatic communication among the nation-states .
What are the pertinent facts affecting such communication at the present juncture of history ? ?
I shall touch on three areas : personal , national , and theological .
1 )
By personal factors I mean those rooted in personality structure .
Some interfaith tensions are not occasioned by theological differences at all , but by the need of men to have persons they can blame , distrust , denounce , and even hate .
Such needs may rise to pathological proportions .
Modern psychology has shown that paralleling `` the authoritarian personality '' is `` the bigoted personality '' in which insecurity , inferiority , suspicion , and distrust combine to provide a target for antagonism so indispensable that it will be manufactured if it does not exist naturally .
Fortunately the number of pathological bigots appears to be quite small , but it would be a mistake to think that more than a matter of degree separates them from the rest of us .
To some extent the personal inadequacies that prejudices attempt to compensate for are to be found in all of us .
Interfaith conflicts which spring from psychological deficiencies are the most unfortunate of all , for they have no redeeming features whatsoever .
It is difficult to say what can be done about them except that we must learn to recognize when it is they , rather than pretexts for them , that are causing the trouble , and do everything possible to nurture the healthy personalities that will prevent the development of such deficiencies .
2 )
While the personality factors that aggravate interfaith conflict may be perennial , nationalism is more variable .
The specific instance I have in mind is the Afro-Asian version which has gained prominence only in this second half of the twentieth century .
Emerging from the two centuries of colonial domination , the Afro-Asian world is aflame with a nationalism that has undone empires .
No less than twenty-two nations have already achieved independence since World War 2 , , and the number is growing by the year .
As an obvious consequence , obstacles to genuine interfaith communication have grown more formidable in one important area : relations between Christians and non-Christians in these lands .
Colonialism alone would have been able to make these difficulties serious , for Christianity is so closely tied to colonialism in the minds of these people that repudiation of the one has tended automatically toward the repudiation of the other .
Actually , however , this turns out to be only part of the picture .
Nationalism has abetted not only the repudiation of foreign religions but the revival of native ones , some of which had been lying in slumber for centuries .
The truth is that any revival of traditional and indigenous religion will serve to promote that sense of identity and Volksgeist which these young nations very much need .
Insofar as these nations claim to incarnate traditions and ways of life which constitute ultimate , trans-political justifications for their existence , such people are inevitably led to emphasize the ways in which these traditions and ways are theirs rather than someone else's .
All this works severely against the kind of cross-cultural communication for which Christian missions stand .
Africans and Asians tend to consider not only missions but the local churches they have produced as centers and agents of Western culture and ideology if not of direct political propaganda .
The people hardest hit by this suspicion are , of course , Christians on the mainland of China .
But the problem extends elsewhere .
For example , in Burma and Ceylon many Buddhists argue that Buddhism ought to be the official state religion .
In 1960 Ceylon nationalized its sectarian -- preponderantly Christian -- schools , to the rejoicing of most of its 7,000,000 Buddhists and the lament of its 800,000 Roman Catholics .
Again , India has imposed formidable barriers against the entrance of additional missionaries , and fanatical Hindu parties are expected to seek further action against Christians once the influence making for tolerance due to Nehru and his followers is gone .
The progressive closing of Afro-Asian ears to the Christian message is epitomized in a conversation I had three years ago while flying from Jerusalem to Cairo .
I was seated next to the director of the Seventh Day Adventists' world radio program .
He said that on his tour the preceding year a considerable number of hours would have been available to him on Japanese radio networks , but that he had then lacked the funds to contract for them .
After returning to the United States and raising the money , he discovered on getting back to Japan that the hours were no longer available .
It was not that they had been contracted for during the interval ; ;
they simply could no longer be purchased for missionary purposes .
It is not unfair to add on the other side that the crude and almost vitriolic approach of certain fundamentalist sects toward the cultures and religions among which they work has contributed measurably to this heightening of anti-Christian sentiment .
Ironically , these are the groups which have doubled or tripled their missionary efforts since World War 2 , , while the more established denominations are barely maintaining pre-war staffs .
Although I have emphasized the barriers which an aroused nationalism has raised against relations between Christians and non-Christians in Asia , the fact is that this development has also widened the gulf between certain Afro-Asian religions themselves .
The partition of India has hardly improved relations between Hindus and Muslims ; ;
neither has the establishment of the State of Israel fostered harmony between Muslims and Jews .
3 )
I turn finally to several theological developments .
1 .
Theocracy reconsidered .
The modern world has been marked by progressive disaffection with claims to divine sanction for the state , whatever its political form .
The American Constitution was historic at this point in providing that `` Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof '' .
One of our foremost jurists , David Dudley Field , has gone so far as to call this provision `` the greatest achievement ever made in the course of human history '' .
The trend throughout the world's religions has been toward a recognition of at least the practical validity of this constitutional enactment .
Pakistan was created in 1947 expressly as a Muslim state , but when the army took over eleven years later it did so on a wave of mass impatience which was directed in part against the inability of political and religious leaders to think their way through to the meaning of Islam for the modern political situation .
`` What is the point '' , Charles Adams reports the Pakistanis as asking , `` in demanding an Islamic state and society if no one , not even the doctors of the sacred law themselves , can say clearly and succinctly what the nature of such a state and society is '' ? ?
The current regime of President Mohammad Ayub Khan is determinedly secular .
And while the nation was formerly named `` The Islamic Republic of Pakistan '' , it is now simply `` The Republic of Pakistan '' .
Comparable trends can be noted elsewhere .
The new regime in Turkey is intentionally less Muslim than its predecessor .
The religious parties in Israel have experienced a great loss of prestige in recent months .
During the years when Israel was passing from crisis to crisis -- the Sinai campaign , the infusion of multitudes of penniless immigrants -- it was felt that the purpose of national unity could be best served if the secular majority were to yield to the religious parties .
Now that Israel enjoys relative prosperity and a reduction of tensions , the secularists are less disposed to compromise .
And in this country Gustave Weigel's delineation of the line between the sacral and secular orders during the last presidential campaign served to provide a most impressive Roman Catholic defense of the practical autonomy of both church and state .
The failure at that time of the Puerto Rican bishops to control the votes of their people added a ring of good sense to Father Weigel's theological argument .
Everywhere there seems to be a growing recognition of the fact that governments and religious institutions alike are too fallible and corruptible -- in a word , too human -- to warrant any claim of maintaining partnership with the divine .
2 .
Salvation reconsidered .
My father went as a missionary to China in a generation that responded to Student Volunteer Movement speakers who held watches in their hands and announced to the students in their audiences how many Chinese souls were going to hell each second because these students were not over there saving them .
That mention of this should bring smiles to our lips today is as clear an indication as we could wish of the extent to which attitudes have changed .
I do not mean to imply that Christians have adopted the liberal assumption , so prevalent in Hinduism , that all religions are merely different paths to the same summit .
Leslie Newbiggin reflects the dominant position within the World Council of Churches when he says , `` We must claim absoluteness and finality for Christ and His finished work , but that very claim forbids us to claim absoluteness and finality for our understanding of it '' .
Newbiggin's qualification on the Christian claim is of considerable significance .
The Roman Catholic Church has excommunicated one of its priests , Father Feeney , for insisting that there is no salvation outside the visible church .
In mentioning this under `` salvation reconsidered '' I do not mean to imply that Roman Catholic doctrine has changed in this area but rather that it has become clearer to the world community what that doctrine is .
When they say that under no circumstances would it ever be right to `` permit '' the termination of the human race by human action , because there could not possibly be any proportionate grave reason to justify such a thing , they know exactly what they mean .
Of course , in prudential calculation , in balancing the good directly intended and done against the evil unintended and indirectly done , no greater precision can be forthcoming than the subject allows .
Yet it seems clear that there can be no good sufficiently great , or evil repelled sufficiently grave , to warrant the destruction of mankind by man's own action .
I mean , however , that the moral theologian knows what he means by `` permit '' .
He is not talking in the main about probabilities , risks and danger in general .
He is talking about an action which just as efficaciously does an evil thing ( and is known certainly and unavoidably to lead to this evil result ) as it efficaciously does some good .
He is talking about double effects , of which the specific action causes directly the one and indirectly the other , but causes both ; ;
of which one is deliberately willed or intended and the other not intended or not directly intended , but still both are done , while the evil effect is , with equal consciousness on the part of the agent , foreknown to be among the consequences .
This is what , in a technical sense , to `` only permit '' an evil result means .
It means to do it and to know one is doing it , but as only a secondary if certain effect of the good one primarily does and intends .
Of course , grave guiltiness may be imputed to the military action of any nation , or to the action of any leader or leaders , which for any supposed good `` permits '' , in this sense , the termination of the human race by human action .
Certainly , in analyzing an action which truly faced such alternatives , `` it is never possible that no world would be preferable to some worlds , and there are in truth no circumstances in which the destruction of human life presents itself as a reasonable alternative '' .
Naturally , where one or the other of the effects of an action is uncertain , this has to be taken into account .
Especially is this true when , because the good effect is remote and speculative while the evil is certain and grave , the action is prohibited .
Presumably , if the reverse is the case and the good effect is more certain than the evil result that may be forthcoming , not only must the good and the evil be prudentially weighed and found proportionate , but also calculation of the probabilities and of the degree of certainty or uncertainty in the good or evil effect must be taken into account .
There must not only be greater good than evil objectively in view , but also greater probability of actually doing more good than harm .
If an evil which is certain and extensive and immediate may rarely be compensated for by a problematic , speculative , future good , by the same token not every present , certain , and immediate good ( or lesser evil ) that may have to be done will be outweighed by a problematic , speculative , and future evil .
Nevertheless , according to the traditional theory , a man begins in the midst of action and he analyzes its nature and immediate consequences before or while putting it forth and causing these consequences .
He does not expect to be able to trammel up all the future consequences of his action .
Above all , he does not debate mere contingencies , and therefore , if these are possibly dreadful , find himself forced into inaction .
He does what he can and may and must , without regarding himself as lord of the future or , on the other hand , as covered with guilt by accident or unforeseen consequences or by results he did not `` permit '' in the sense explained .
By contrast , a good deal of nuclear pacifism begins with the contingencies and the probabilities , and not with the moral nature of the action to be done ; ;
and by deriving legitimate decision backward from whatever may conceivably or possibly or probably result , whether by anyone's doing or by accident , it finds itself driven to inaction , to non-political action in politics and non-military action in military affairs , and to the not very surprising discovery that there are now no distinctions on which the defense of justice can possibly be based .
Mr. Philip Toynbee writes , for example , that `` in terms of probability it is surely as likely as not that mutual fear will lead to accidental war in the near future if the present situation continues .
If it continues indefinitely it is nearly a statistical certainty that a mistake will be made and that the devastation will begin '' .
Against such a termination of human life on earth by human action , he then proposes as an alternative that we `` negotiate at once with the Russians and get the best terms which are available '' , that we deliberately `` negotiate from comparative weakness '' .
He bravely attempts to face this alternative realistically , i.e. , by considering the worst possible outcome , namely , the total domination of the world by Russia within a few years .
This would be by far the better choice , when `` it is a question of allowing the human race to survive , possibly under the domination of a regime which most of us detest , or of allowing it to destroy itself in appalling and prolonged anguish '' .
Nevertheless , the consequence of the policy proposed is everywhere subtly qualified : it is `` a possible result , however improbable '' ; ;
`` the worst , and least probable '' result ; ;
`` if it didn't prevail mankind would still be given the opportunity of prevailing '' ; ;
for `` surely anything is better than a policy which allows for the possibility of nuclear war '' .
If we have not thought and made a decision entirely in these terms , then we need to submit ourselves to the following `` simple test '' : `` Have we decided how we are to kill the other members of our household in the event of our being less injured than they are '' ? ?
Thus , moral decision must be entirely deduced backward from the likely eventuality ; ;
it is no longer to be formulated in terms of the nature of present action itself , its intention , and proximate effect or the thing to be done .
Several of the replies to Mr. Toynbee , without conscious resort to the traditional terminology with regard to the permission of evil , succeed in restoring the actual context in which present moral and political decisions must be made , by distinguishing between choosing a great evil and choosing in danger of this evil .
`` It is worse for a nation to give in to evil than to run the risk of annihilation '' .
`` I am consciously prepared to run the continued risk of ' race suicide by accident ' rather than accept the alternative certainty of race slavery by design .
But I can only make this choice because I believe that the risk need not increase , but may be deliberately reduced '' ( by precautions against accidents or by limiting war ? ?
) `` Quoting Mr. Kennan's phrase that anything would be better than a policy which led inevitably to nuclear war , he ( Toynbee ) says that anything is better than a policy which allows for the possibility of nuclear war '' .
`` If asked to choose between a terrible probability and a more terrible possibility , most men will choose the latter '' .
`` If Philip Toynbee is claiming that the choice lies between capitulation and the risk of nuclear war , I think he is right .
I do not accept that the choice is between capitulation and the certainty of nuclear war '' .
Even Professor Arnold Toynbee , agreeing with his son , does so in these terms : `` Compared to continuing to incur a constant risk of the destruction of the human race , all other evils are lesser evils .
Let us therefore put first things first , and make sure of preserving the human race at whatever the temporary price may be '' .
Mr. Philip Toynbee affirms at one point that if he shared the anticipations of Orwell in Nineteen Eighty-Four , if he believed Communism was not only evil but `` also irredeemably evil '' , then he might `` think it right to do anything rather than to take the risk of a communist world .
Even a nuclear holocaust is a little less frightful to contemplate than a race of dehumanised humans occupying the earth until doomsday '' .
No political order or economic system is so clearly contrary to nature .
But one does not have to affirm the existence of an evil order irredeemable in that sense , or a static order in which no changes will take place in time , to be able truthfully to affirm the following fact : there has never been justitia imprinted in social institutions and social relationships except in the context of some pax-ordo preserved by clothed or naked force .
On their way to the Heavenly City the children of God make use of the pax-ordo of the earthly city and acknowledge their share in responsibility for its preservation .
Not to repel injury and uphold and improve pax-ordo means not simply to accept the misshapen order and injustice that challenges it at the moment , but also to start down the steep slope along which justice can find no place whereon to stand .
Toynbee seems to think that there is some other way to give justice social embodiment .
`` I would far rather die after a Russian occupation of this country -- by some deliberate act of refusal -- than die uselessly by atomisation '' .
Would such an act of refusal be useful ? ?
He does not mean , in fact he addresses himself specifically to reject the proposition , that `` if we took the risk of surrendering , a new generation in Britain would soon begin to amass its strength in secret in order to reverse the consequences of that surrender '' .
He wants to be `` brutally frank and say that these rebellions would be hopeless -- far , far more hopeless than was the Hungarian revolution of 1956 '' .
This is not a project for regaining the ground for limited war , by creating a monopoly in one power of the world's arsenal of unlimited weapons .
It is a proposal that justice now be served by means other than those that have ever preconditioned the search for it , or preconditioned more positive means for attaining it , in the past .
`` It is no good recommending surrender rather than nuclear warfare with the proviso that surrender could be followed by the effective military resistance by occupied peoples .
Hope for the future would lie in the natural longing of the human race for freedom and the right to develop '' .
This is to surrender in advance to whatever attack may yet be mounted , to the very last ; ;
it is to stride along the steep slope downward .
The only contrary action , in the future as in the past , runs the risk of war ; ;
and , now and in the future unlike in the past , any attempt to repel injury and to preserve any particular civilized attainment of mankind or its provisional justice runs some risk of nuclear warfare and the danger that an effect of it will , by human action , render this planet less habitable by the human race .
That is why it is so very important that ethical analysis keep clear the problem of decision as to `` permitted '' effects , and not draw back in fright from any conceivable contingency or suffer paralysis of action before possibilities or probabilities unrelated , or not directly morally related , to what we can and may and must do as long as human history endures .
Finally , just as no different issues are posed for thoughtful analysis by the foreshortening of time that may yet pass before the end of human life on this earth , but only stimulation and alarm to the imagination , the same thing must be said in connection with the question of what we may perhaps already be doing , by human action , to accelerate this end .
We should not allow the image of an immanent end brought about indirectly by our own action in the continuing human struggle for a just endurable order of existence to blind us to the fact that in some measure accelerating the end of our lease may be one consequence among others of many other of mankind's thrusts toward we know not what future .
Much more than shelter , housing symbolizes social status , a sense of `` belonging '' , acceptance within a given group or neighborhood , identification with particular cultural values and social institutions , feelings of pride and worth , aspirations and hopes basic to human well-being .
For almost one-sixth of the national population discrimination in the free selection of residence casts a considerable shadow upon these values assumed as self-evident by most Americans .
Few business groups in recent years have come under heavier pressure to face these realities than real estate brokers and home builders .
This pressure has urged re-evaluation of the assumptions underlying their professional ethics ; ;
it has sought new sympathy for the human aspirations of racial minority groups in this country .
It is not surprising that , as spokesman for real estate interests , the National Association of Real Estate Boards ( NAREB ) and its local associations have sought to limit and often ignore much of this pressure .
How does the local realtor see himself in the context of housing restrictions based on race , religion or ethnic attachment ? ?
What does he conceive his role to be in this area of social unrest ? ?
What ought to be , what is his potential role as a force for constructive social change ? ?
What social , ethical and theological insights can the church and university help him bring to bear upon his situation ? ?
Recently , a group of the faculty at Wesleyan University's Public Affairs Center sought some answers to these questions .
Several New England realtors were invited to participate in a small colloquium of property lawyers , political scientists , economists , social psychologists , social ethicists and theologians .
Here , in an atmosphere of forthrightness and mutual criticism , each sought to bring his particular insights to bear upon the question of discrimination in housing and the part each man present played in it .
For a number of years , Wesleyan has been drawing varied groups of political and business leaders into these informal discussions with members of the faculty and student body , attempting to explore and clarify aspects of their responsibility for public policy .
This article presents our observations of that session , of the realtors as they saw themselves and as the faculty and students saw them .
Such conversation quickly reveals an ethically significant ambivalence in the self-images held by most realtors .
Within the membership of this group , as has been found true of men in other professional or trade associations , the most ready portrayal of oneself to `` the public '' is that of a neutral agent simply serving the interests of a seller or buyer and mediating between them .
Professional responsibility is seen to consist largely in serving the wishes of the client fairly and in an efficient manner .
But as conversation goes on , particularly among the realtors themselves , another image emerges , that of considerable power and influence in the community .
Obviously , much more than customer expectation is determining the realtor's role .
Judgments are continually rendered regarding the potential buyers' income , educational level and above all , racial extraction ; ;
and whether these would qualify them for `` congenial '' , `` happy '' relations to other people in certain community areas .
A narrow professionalism
How explicit such factors have been historically is evident in any chronology of restrictive covenant cases or in a review of NAREB's Code of Ethics Article 34 in the Code , adopted in 1924 , states that `` a Realtor should never be instrumental in introducing into a neighborhood a character of property or occupancy , members of any race or nationality or any individuals whose presence will clearly be detrimental to property values in that neighborhood '' .
Though the reference to race was stricken by the association in 1950 , being an agent of such `` detrimental '' influences still appears as the cardinal sin realtors see themselves committed to avoid .
The rationale for this avoidance was most frequently expressed in economic terms ; ;
all feared the supposed stigma they believed would inevitably attach to any realtor who openly introduced non-white , particularly Negro , peoples into all-white , restricted areas .
They would become tagged as men not interested in being purely real estate `` professionals '' but agitators for some kind of `` cause '' or `` reform '' , and this was no longer to be a `` pro '' .
Obviously what we are confronted with here is the identification of `` professional '' with narrow skills and specialization , the effective servicing of a client , rather than responsiveness to the wider and deeper meaning and associations of one's work .
These men -- for the most part educated in our `` best '' New England colleges , well established financially and socially in the community -- under kindly but insistent probing , reveal little or no objective or explicit criteria or data for their generalizations about the interests and attitudes of the people they claim to serve , or about the public responses that actually follow their occasional breach of a `` client-service relationship '' .
This narrow `` professionalism '' does not even fit the present realities of their situation , as the pressure of minorities and the power and respectability of the realtors increase .
As our discussion continued , the inadequacy of the `` client relationship '' as an interpretation of their `` way of operating '' became evident .
Realtors live in their communities as specialists in a given area of work , as members of social and professional organizations , as citizens and civic leaders , as church laymen , as university alumni , as newspaper readers , etc. .
From such communal roles the realtor finds the substance that shapes his moral understanding .
It seems to us that choices exercised by realtors in moral situations center in at least three areas : ( 1 ) the various ways in which they interpret a particular social issue ; ;
( 2 ) their pattern of involvement in the regular legal and political processes ; ;
and , most pervasively , ( 3 ) their interpretation of who is a `` real pro '' , of what it means to be a professional man in a technical , fragmented society .
( 1 ) Most of the realtors minimized their own understanding of and role in the racial issue , pleading that they only reflect the attitudes and intentions of their society .
There is some reality to this ; ;
the Commission on Race and Housing concluded that `` there is no reason to believe that real estate men are either more or less racially prejudiced , on the whole , than any other segment of the American population '' .
But such a reaction obscures the powerful efforts made in the past by both NAREB and its local boards for the maintenance of restrictive clauses and practices .
Also , it does not recognize the elements of choice and judgment continually employed .
Like business and university groups generally , these men had very limited knowledge of recent sociological and psychological studies and findings that might illumine the decisions they make .
Realtors , both generally and in this group , have invariably equated residential integration with a decline in property values , a circumstance viewed with considerable apprehension .
Recent studies by the Commission on Race and Housing and others , however , point to a vast complex of factors that often do not warrant this conclusion .
There are increasing numbers of neighborhoods that are integrated residentially without great loss of property values , the white population having taken the initiative in preparing the areas for an appreciation of the Negroes' desire for well-kept housing , privacy , etc. .
Data on the decline of property values in an area after a new racial group enters it has to be assessed in terms of the trends in property values before the group comes in .
Often they are able to get in only because the area is declining economically .
Significantly , no realtor and few of the faculty present were familiar with any of the six volumes ( published by the University of California Press ) that present the commission's findings .
No one anticipates any radical shift in this situation , but questions concerning reading habits , the availability of such data and the places where it is discussed must surely be raised .
The role of both church and university as sources of information and settings within which the implications of such information may be explored needs consideration .
Relevant `` facts '' , however , extend beyond considerations of property values and maintenance of `` harmonious '' neighborhoods .
Discussion of minority housing necessarily involves such basic issues as the intensity of one's democratic conviction and religious belief concerning equality of opportunity , the function and limitations of government in the securing of such equality , and the spotlight that world opinion plays upon local incidents of racial agitation and strife .
`` Against the grain of creation ''
( 2 ) Realtors realize , of course , that they are involved in an increasingly complex legal and political system that is opening up opportunities for leverage on their relation to clients as well as opportunities for evasion of their responsibility for racial discrimination in housing .
On the positive side , recent Federal action has largely undermined the legal sanction so long enjoyed by the segregationist position ; ;
anti-discriminatory statutes in housing have now been adopted by thirteen states and , while specific provisions have varied , the tendency is clearly toward expanding coverage .
Realtors in attendance at the colloquium expressed interest , for example , in Connecticut's new housing law as setting standards of equity that they would like `` to have to obey '' , but in support of which none had been willing to go on public record .
As far as they were aware , the Connecticut Association of Real Estate Boards had not officially opposed the bill's passage or lobbied in its support .
( This has not been the case everywhere .
In 1957 , the Real Estate Boards of New York City actively opposed the then pending private housing anti-discrimination law .
Official reasoning : the bill was a `` wanton invasion of basic property rights '' .
)
There are sins of omission as well as commission ; ;
the attitude adopted by realtors and their associations , either negative or positive , plays a large part in the public acceptance of such measures and the degree to which they may be effectively enforced .
Judicial opinion since the Supreme Court decision on Shelley v. Kraemer ( 1948 ) has rendered racial restrictive covenants unenforcible .
Such a decision should have placed a powerful weapon in the hands of the entire housing industry , but there is little evidence that realtors , or at least their associations , have repudiated the principle in such clauses .
In the states that have passed laws preventing discrimination in the sale or rental of housing , support by real estate associations for compliance and broadened coverage through additional legislation could help remove the label of `` social reformism '' that most realtors individually seem determined to avoid .
But as yet , no real estate board has been willing officially to support such laws or to admit the permissibility of introducing minority buyers into all-white neighborhoods .
One of the roles of the social scientist , ethicist or theologian in our discussions with the realtors became that of encouraging greater awareness of the opportunities offered by the legal and political processes for the exercise of broad social responsibilities in their work .
But responsiveness to these opportunities presumes that all of us judge the good as a human good and not simply as a professional , white , American good .
Such judgments are meaningful only in so far as persons are members of a world , let us say a community , that embraces Scarsdale or Yonkers , but is also infinitely richer since it is all-inclusive .
That community of all creation is , then , the ultimate object of our loyalty and the concrete norm of all moral judgment .
Racial discrimination is wrong , then , not because it goes against the grain of a faculty member trying to converse with a few realtors but because it goes against the grain of creation and against the will of the Creator .
Thus , moral issues concerning the nature of the legal and political processes take on theological dimensions .
A fragmented Society
( 3 ) Over the years , individuals engaged in the sale of real estate have developed remarkable unity in the methods and practices employed .
Most realtors and real estate brokers talk of themselves as `` professional people '' with the cultural and moral values held by the traditional professions .
But what significance attaches to `` professional '' , beyond the narrow sense of skillfulness in meeting a client's stated needs as already noted ? ?
Our faculty and students pressed this issue more than any other .
As a theologian in the group pointed out , a professional was , before the modern period of technical specialization , one who `` professed '' to be a bearer and critic of his culture in the use of his particular skills .
If we look about the world today , we can see clearly that there are two especially significant factors shaping the future of our civilization : science and religion .
Science is placing in our hands the ultimate power of the universe , the power of the atom .
Religion , or the lack of it , will decide whether we use this power to build a brave new world of peace and abundance for all mankind , or whether we misuse this power to leave a world utterly destroyed .
How can we have the wisdom to meet such a new and difficult challenge ? ?
We may feel pessimistic at the outlook .
And yet there is a note of hope , because this same science that is giving us the power of the atom is also giving us atomic vision .
We are looking inside the atom and seeing there a universe which is not material but something beyond the material , a universe that in a word is not matter but music .
And it is in this new vision of the atom that we find an affirmation and an invigoration of our faith .
Atomic energy
To see this vision in perspective , we need first of all a clear idea of the magnitude of this new power from the atom .
You know that I could hold right here in my hand the little chunk of uranium metal that was the heart of the bomb that dropped on Hiroshima .
It was only about the size of a baseball ; ;
but packed in that metallic ball there was the explosive force of 20,000 tons of Aj .
That is enough TNT to fill the tower of the Empire State Building ; ;
and with the availability of bombs of that size , war became a new problem .
Now we might have restricted the use of uranium bombs by controlling the sources of uranium because it is found in only a few places in the world .
But we had hardly started to adjust our thinking to this new uranium weapon when we were faced with the hydrogen bomb .
Hydrogen is just as plentiful as uranium is scarce .
We know that we have hydrogen in water ; ;
water is Af and the H stands for hydrogen ; ;
there is also hydrogen in wood and hydrogen in our bodies .
I have calculated that if I could snap my fingers in one magic gesture to release the power of all the hydrogen in my body , I would explode with the force of a hundred bombs of the kind that fell on Hiroshima .
I won't try the experiment , but I think you can see that if we all knew the secret and we could all let ourselves go , there would be quite an explosion .
And then think how little hydrogen we have in us compared with the hydrogen in Delaware Bay or in the ocean beyond .
Salt water is still Af , the same hydrogen is there .
And the size of the ocean shows us the magnitude of the destructive power we hold in our hands today .
Of course , there is also an optimistic side to the picture .
For if I knew the secret of letting this power in my body change directly into electricity , I could rent myself out to the electric companies and with just the power in my body I could light all the lights and run all the factories in the entire United States for some days .
And think , if we all knew this secret and we could pool our power , what a wonderful public utility company we would make .
With just the hydrogen of our bodies , we could run the world for years .
Then think of Delaware Bay and the ocean and you see that we have a supply of power for millions of years to come .
It is power with which we can literally rebuild the world , provide adequate housing , food , education , abundant living for everyone everywhere .
An octillion atoms
Now let us see where this power comes from .
To grasp our new view of the atom , we have to appreciate first of all how small the atom is .
I have been trying to make this clear to my own class in chemistry .
One night there were some dried peas lying on our kitchen table , and these peas looked to me like a little group of atoms ; ;
and I asked myself a question : Suppose I had the same number of peas as there are atoms in my body , how large an area would they cover ? ?
I calculated first that there are about an octillion atoms in the average human body ; ;
that is a figure one with 27 ciphers , quite a large number .
Then I calculated that a million peas would just about fill a household refrigerator ; ;
a billion peas would fill a small house from cellar to attic ; ;
a trillion peas would fill all the houses in a town of about ten thousand people ; ;
and a quadrillion peas would fill all the buildings in the city of Philadelphia .
I saw that I would soon run out of buildings at this rate , so I decided to take another measure -- the whole state of Pennsylvania .
Imagine that there is a blizzard over Pennsylvania , but instead of snowing snow , it snows peas ; ;
so we get the whole state covered with peas , about four feet deep .
You can imagine what it would look like going out on the turnpike with the peas banked up against the houses and covering the cars ; ;
Pennsylvania thus blanketed would contain about a quintillion peas .
But we still have a long way to go .
Next we imagine our blizzard raging over all the land areas of the entire globe -- North America , South America , Europe , Asia , and Africa , all covered with peas four feet deep ; ;
then we have sextillion peas .
Next we freeze over the oceans and cover the whole earth with peas , then we go out among the neighboring stars , collect 250 planets each the size of the earth , and also cover each of these with peas four feet deep ; ;
and then we have septillion .
Finally we go into the farthest reaches of the Milky Way ; ;
we get 250,000 planets ; ;
we cover each of these with our blanket of peas and then at last we have octillion peas corresponding in number to the atoms in the body .
So you see how small an atom is and how complicated you are .
A speck -- and space
Now although an atom is small , we can still in imagination have a look at it .
Let us focus on an atom of calcium from the tip of the bone of my finger and let us suppose that I swallow a magic Alice In Wonderland growing pill .
I start growing rapidly and this calcium atom grows along with me .
I shoot up through the roof , into the sky , past the clouds , through the stratosphere , out beyond the moon , out among the planets , until I am over a hundred and fifty million miles long .
Then this atom of calcium will swell to something like a great balloon a hundred yards across , a balloon big enough to put a football field inside .
And if you should step inside of such a magnified atom , according to the physics of forty years ago , you would see circulating over your head , down at the sides , and under your feet , some twenty luminous balls about the size of footballs .
These balls are moving in great circles and ellipses , and are of course , the electrons , the particles of negative electricity which by their action create the forces that tie this atom of calcium to the neighboring atoms of oxygen and make up the solid structure of my finger bone .
Since these electrons are moving like planets , you may wonder whether there is an atomic sun at the center of the atom .
So you look down there and you see a tiny , whirling point about the size of the head of a pin .
This is the atomic sun , the atomic nucleus .
Even if the atom were big enough to hold a football field , this nucleus is still only about the size of a pinhead .
It is this atomic nucleus that contains the positive charge of electricity holding these negatively charged electrons in their orbits ; ;
it also contains nearly all the mass , and the atomic energy .
You may ask what else there is , and the answer is nothing -- nothing but empty space .
And since you are made of atoms , you are nothing much but empty space , too .
If I could put your body in an imaginary atomic press and squeeze you down , squeeze these holes out of you in the way we squeeze the holes out of a sponge , you would get smaller and smaller until finally when the last hole was gone , you would be smaller than the smallest speck of dust that you could see on this piece of paper .
Someone has remarked that this is certainly the ultimate in reducing .
At any rate , it shows us how immaterial we are .
Music of the spheres
Now this 1920 view of the atom was on the whole a discouraging picture .
For we believed that the electrons obeyed the law of mechanics and electrodynamics ; ;
and therefore the atom was really just a little machine ; ;
and in mechanics the whole is no more than the sum of the parts .
So if you are made of atoms , you are just a big machine ; ;
and since the universe is also made of atoms , it is just a supermachine .
And this would mean that we live in a mechanistic universe , governed by the laws of cause and effect , bound in chains of determinism that hold the universe on a completely predetermined course in which there is not room for soul or spirit or human freedom .
And this is why so many scientists a half a century ago were agnostics or atheists .
Then came the scientific revolution in the late 1920's .
A suggestion from Louis De Broglie , a physicist in France , showed us that these electrons are not point particles but waves .
And to see the meaning of this new picture , imagine that you can put on more powerful glasses and go back inside the atom and have a look at it in the way we view it today .
Now as you step inside , instead of seeing particles orbiting around like planets , you see waves and ripples very much like the ripples that you get on the surface of a pond when you drop a stone into it .
These ripples spread out in symmetrical patterns like the rose windows of a great cathedral .
And as the waves flow back and forth and merge with the waves from the neighboring atoms , you can put on a magic hearing aid and you hear music .
It is a music like the music from a great organ or a vast orchestra playing a symphony .
Harmony , melody , counterpoint symphonic structure are there ; ;
and as this music ebbs and flows , there is an antiphonal chorus from all the atoms outside , in fact from the atoms of the entire universe .
And so today when we examine the structure of our knowledge of the atom and of the universe , we are forced to conclude that the best word to describe our universe is music .
The Island of Nantucket , part of the State of Massachusetts , lies about thirty-one miles southeast of its mother State .
Some of the Island is sand and is not suitable for living .
The Island folk have their living almost entirely from summer visitors ; ;
the rest is obtained from harbor scallops .
During about three and a half months of the year , in the summer , there are three boats that run from the mainland to the Island carrying passengers , food , and cars ; ;
but the rest of the year only one boat is needed , which ties up at the mainland nights and makes the trip down to Nantucket in the daytime .
This is a fine trip , too , on a good day .
With Martha's Vineyard on one side and the open sea on the other , it makes an excellent trip of about three hours .
To what extent and in what ways did Christianity affect the United States of America in the nineteenth century ? ?
How far and in what fashion did it modify the new nation which was emerging in the midst of the forces shaping the revolutionary age ? ?
To what extent did it mould the morals and the social , economic , and political life and institutions of the country ? ?
A complete picture is impossible -- partly because of the limitations of space , partly because for millions of individuals who professed allegiance to the Christian faith data are unobtainable .
Even more of an obstacle is the difficulty of separating the influence of Christianity from other factors .
Although a complete picture cannot be given , we can indicate some aspects of life into which the Christian faith entered as at least one creative factor .
At times we can say that it was the major factor .
What in some ways was the most important aspect was the impact individually on the millions who constituted the nation .
As we have seen , a growing proportion , although in 1914 still a minority , were members of churches .
Presumably those who did not have a formal church connexion had also felt the influence of Christianity to a greater or lesser extent .
Many of them had once been members of a church or at least had been given instruction in Christianity but for one or another reason had allowed the connexion to lapse .
The form of Christianity to which they were exposed was for some the Protestantism of the older stock , for others the Protestantism of the nineteenth-century immigration ; ;
for still others , mostly of the nineteenth-century immigration , it was Roman Catholicism , and for a small minority it was Eastern Orthodoxy .
Upon all of them played the intellectual , social , political , and economic attitudes , institutions , and customs of the nation .
Upon most of these Christianity had left an impress and through them had had a share in making the individual what he was .
Yet to determine precisely to what extent and exactly in what ways any individual showed the effects of Christianity would be impossible .
At best only an approximation could be arrived at .
To generalize for the entire nation would be absurd .
For instance , we cannot know whether even for church members the degree of conformity to Christian standards of morality increased or declined as the proportion of church members in the population rose .
The temptation is to say that , as the percentage of church members mounted , the degree of discipline exercised by the churches lessened and the trend was towards conformity to the general level .
Yet this cannot be proved .
We know that in the early part of the century many Protestant congregations took positive action against members who transgressed the ethical codes to which the majority subscribed .
Thus Baptist churches on the frontier took cognizance of charges against their members of drunkenness , fighting , malicious gossip , lying , cheating , sexual irregularities , gambling , horse racing , and failure to pay just debts .
If guilty , the offender might be excluded from membership .
As church membership burgeoned , such measures faded into desuetude .
But whether this was accompanied by a general lowering of the moral life of the membership we do not know .
What we can attempt with some hope of dependable conclusions is to point out the manner in which Christianity entered into particular aspects of the life of the nation .
We have already hinted at the fashion in which Christianity contributed to education and so to intellectual life .
We will now speak of the ways in which it helped shape the ideals of the country and of the manner in which it stimulated efforts to attain those ideals through reform movements , through programmes for bringing the collective life to the nation to conformity to Christian standards , and through leaders in the government .
Throughout the nineteenth century Christianity exerted its influence on American society as a whole primarily through the Protestantism of the older stock .
By the end of the century the Roman Catholic Church was beginning to make itself felt , mainly through such institutions as hospitals but also through its attitude towards organized labour .
In the twentieth century its influence grew , as did that of the Protestantism of the nineteenth-century immigration .
The American dream
The ideals of the country were deeply indebted to the Protestantism of the older stock .
Thus `` America '' , the most widely sung of the patriotic songs , was written by a New England Baptist clergyman , Samuel Francis Smith ( 1808-1895 ) , while a student in Andover Theological Seminary .
With its zeal for liberty and its dependence on God it breathed the spirit which had been nourished on the Evangelical revivals .
The great seal of the United States was obviously inspired by the Christian faith .
Here was what was called the American dream , namely , the effort to build a structure which would be something new in history and to do so in such fashion that God could bless it .
Later in the century the dream again found expression in the lines of Katherine Lee Bates ( 1859-1929 ) , daughter and granddaughter of New England Congregational ministers , in her widely sung hymn , written in 1893 , `` America The Beautiful '' , with the words `` O beautiful for pilgrim feet whose stern impassioned stress a thoroughfare for freedom beat across the wilderness .
America , America , God mend thy every flaw , confirm thy soul in self control , the liberty in law .
O beautiful for patriot dream that sees beyond the years thine alabaster cities gleam undimmed by human tears .
America , America , God shed His grace on thee , and crown thy good with brotherhood from sea to shining sea '' .
The American dream was compounded of many strains .
Some were clearly of Christian origin , among them the Great Awakening and other revivals which helped to make Christian liberty , Christian equality , and Christian fraternity the passion of the land .
Some have seen revivalism and the search for Christian perfection as the fountain-head of the American hope .
Here , too , must be placed Unitarianism and , less obviously from Christian inspiration , Emerson , Transcendentalism , and the idealism of Walt Whitman .
We must also remember those who reacted against the dream as a kind of myth -- among them Melville , Hawthorne , and Henry James the elder , all of them out of a Christian background .
Reform movements
With such a dream arising , at least in part , from the Protestant heritage of the United States and built into the foundations of the nation , it is not surprising that many efforts were made to give it concrete expression .
A number were in the nature of movements to relieve or remove social ills .
Significantly , the initiation and leadership of a major proportion of the reform movements , especially those in the first half of the nineteenth century , came from men and women of New England birth or parentage and from either Trinitarian or Unitarian Congregationalism .
Several of the movements were given a marked impetus by revivalism .
Quakers , some from New England , had a larger share than their proportionate numerical strength would have warranted .
We do well to remind ourselves that from men and women of New England ancestry also issued the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints , the Seventh Day Adventists , Christian Science , the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions , the American Home Missionary Society , the American Bible Society , and New England theology .
The atmosphere was one of optimism , of confidence in human progress , and of a determination to rid the world of its ills .
The Hopkinsian universal disinterested benevolence , although holding to original sin and the doctrine of election , inspired its adherents to heroic endeavours for others , looked for the early coming of the Millennium , and was paralleled by the confidence in man's ability cherished by the Unitarians , Emerson , and the Transcendentalists .
We should recall the number of movements for the service of mankind which arose from the kindred Evangelicalism of the British Isles and the Pietism of the Continent of Europe -- among them prison reform , anti-slavery measures , legislation for the alleviation of conditions of labour , the Inner Mission , and the Red Cross .
We cannot take the space to record all the efforts for the removal or alleviation of collective ills .
A few of the more prominent must serve as examples of what a complete listing and description would disclose .
Several were born in the early decades and persisted throughout the century .
Others were ephemeral .
Some disappeared with the attainment of their purpose .
Still others sprang up late in the century to meet conditions which arose from fresh stages of the revolutionary age .
The anti-slavery movement
The movement to end Negro slavery began before 1815 and mounted after that year until , as a result of the Civil War , emancipation was achieved .
Long before 1815 the Christian conscience was leading some to declare slavery wrong and to act accordingly .
For example , in 1693 the Philadelphia Yearly Meeting of Friends declared that its members should emancipate their slaves and in 1776 it determined to exclude from membership all who did not comply .
In the latter year Samuel Hopkins , from whom the Hopkinsian strain of New England theology took its name , asked the Continental Congress to abolish slavery .
As we have seen , Methodism early took a stand against slavery .
Beginning at least as far back as 1789 various Baptist bodies condemned slavery .
After 1815 anti-slavery sentiment mounted , chiefly among Protestants and those of Protestant background of the older stock .
The nineteenth-century immigration , whether Protestant or Roman Catholic , was not so much concerned , for very few if any among them held slaves : they were mostly in the Northern states where slavery had disappeared or was on the way out , or were too poverty-stricken to own slaves .
The anti-slavery movement took many forms .
Benjamin Lundy ( 1789-1839 ) , a Quaker , was a pioneer in preparing the way for anti-slavery societies .
It was he who turned the attention of William Lloyd Garrison ( 1805-1879 ) to the subject .
Garrison , Massachusetts born of Nova Scotian parentage , was by temperament and conviction a reformer .
Chiefly remembered because of his incessant advocacy of `` immediate and unconditional abolition '' , he also espoused a great variety of other causes -- among them women's rights , prohibition , and justice to the Indians .
Incurably optimistic , dogmatic , and utterly fearless , in his youth a devout Baptist , in spite of his friendship for the Quaker poet John Greenleaf Whittier ( 1807-1892 ) he eventually attacked the orthodox churches for what he deemed their cowardly compromising on the slavery issue and in his invariably ardent manner was emphatically unorthodox and denied the plenary inspiration of the Bible .
A marked impulse came to the anti-slavery movement through the Finney revivals .
Finney himself , while opposed to slavery , placed his chief emphasis on evangelism , but from his converts issued much of the leadership of the anti-slavery campaign .
Theodore Dwight Weld ( 1803-1895 ) was especially active .
Weld was the son and grandson of New England Congregational ministers .
As a youth he became one of Finney's band of evangelists and gave himself to winning young men .
A strong temperance advocate , through the influence of a favorite teacher , Charles Stewart , another Finney convert , he devoted himself to the anti-slavery cause .
A group of young men influenced by him enrolled in Lane Theological Seminary and had to leave because of their open anti-slavery position .
The majority then went to the infant Oberlin .
They and others employed some of Finney's techniques as they sought to win adherents to the cause .
Weld contributed to the anti-slavery convictions of such men as Joshua R. Giddings and Edwin M. Stanton , enlisted John Quincy Adams , and helped provide ideas which underlay Harriet Beecher Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin .
He shunned publicity for himself and sought to avoid fame .
Wendell Phillips ( 1811-1884 ) , from a prominent Massachusetts family , in his teens was converted under the preaching of Lyman Beecher .
Although he later broke with the churches because he believed that they were insufficiently outspoken against social evils , he remained a devout Christian .
He was remembered chiefly for his fearless advocacy of abolition , but he also stood for equal rights for women , for opportunity for the freedmen , and for prohibition .
The anti-slavery movement and other contemporary reforms and philanthropies were given leadership and financial undergirding by Arthur Tappan ( 1786-1865 ) and his younger brother , Lewis Tappan ( 1788-1873 ) .
Individuals possessing unusual gifts and great personal power were transmuted at death into awesome spirits ; ;
they were almost immediately worshipped for these newer , even more terrible abilities .
Their direct descendants inherited not only their worldly fortunes , but also the mandate of their newfound power as spirits in the other half of the universe .
Royal lineages could be based on extraordinary worldly achievements translated into eternal otherworldly power .
Thus , the emperor could draw on sources not available to those with less puissant ancestors .
But this eminence was not without its weighty responsibilities .
Since he possessed more power in an interdependent universe of living beings and dead spirits , the emperor had to use it for the benefit of the living .
The royal ritual generated power into the other world : it also provided the living with a way to control the spirits , and bring their powers directly to bear on the everyday affairs of the world .
Proper ritual observance at any level of society was capable of generating power for use in the spirit world ; ;
but naturally , the royal ritual , which provided unusual control over already supremely powerful divine spirits , was held responsible for regulating the universe and insuring the welfare of the kingdom .
This is the familiar system of `` cosmic government '' .
The Chinese emperor , by proper observance of ritual , manifested divine powers .
He regulated the dualities of light and darkness , Yang and Yin , which are locked in eternal struggle .
By swaying the balance between them , he effected the alternation of the seasons .
His power was so great that he even promoted and demoted gods according to whether they had given ear or been deaf to petitions .
In this system , no man is exempt from obligations .
Failure in daily moral and ethical duties to one's family , outrages to community propriety , any departure from rigid standards of moral excellence were offenses against the dead .
And to offend the dead meant to incur their wrath , and thus provoke the unleashing of countrywide disasters .
The family home was , in fact , a temple ; ;
and the daily duties of individuals were basically religious in nature .
The dead spirits occupied a prominent place in every hope and in every fear .
The common belief was that there existed one moral order , which included everything .
The dead controlled the material prosperity of the living , and the living adhered to strict codes of conduct in order not to weaken that control .
Men believed they could control nature by obeying a moral code .
If the moral code were flouted , the proper balance of the universe would be upset , and the disastrous result could be floods , plague , or famine .
Modern Westerners have difficulty comprehending this fusion of moral and material , largely because in the West the historical trend has been to deny the connection .
Living in urban conditions , away from the deadweight of village constraint and the constrictions of a thatched-roof world view , the individual may find it possible , say , to commit adultery not only without personal misgivings , but also without suffering any adverse effects in his worldly fortunes .
Basing action on the empirical determination of cause and effect provides a toughness and bravado that no powerful otherworldly ancestor could ever impart -- plus the added liberation from the constraint of silent burial urns .
In China , the magical system par excellence was Taoism .
The Taoists were Quietist mystics , who saw an unchanging unity -- the Tao -- underlying all phenomena .
It was this timeless unity that was all-important , and not its temporary manifestations in the world of reality .
The Taoists believed the unity could be influenced by proper magical manipulation ; ;
in other words , they were actually an organization of magicians .
Mahayana Buddhism was no exception to these prevailing magical concepts .
After this form of Indian Buddhism had been introduced into China , it underwent extensive changes .
During its flowering in the sixth to the eighth centuries , Mahayana offered a supernatural package to the Chinese which bears no resemblance to the highly digested philosophical Zen morsels offered to the modern Western reader .
Mahayana had gods , and magic , a pantheon , heavens and hells , and gorgeously appareled priests , monks , and nuns , all of whom wielded power over souls in the other world .
The self-realized Mahayana saint possessed superhuman powers and magic .
The Mahayana that developed in the north was a religion of idolatry and coarse magic , that made the world into a huge magical garden .
In its monastic form , Mahayana was merely an organization of magic-practicing monks ( bonzes ) , who catered to the Chinese faith in the supernatural .
Nonmagical Confucianism was a secular , rational philosophy , but even with this different orientation it could not escape from the ethos of a cosmic government .
Confucianism had its own magic in the idea that virtue had power .
If a man lived a classical life , he need not fear the spirits -- for only lack of virtue gave the spirits power over him .
But let us not be mistaken about Confucian `` virtue '' ; ;
this was not virtue as we understand the word today , and it did not mean an abandonment of the belief in magic manipulation .
To the Confucian , `` virtue '' simply meant mastery and correct observance of three hundred major rules of ritual and three thousand minor ones .
Propriety was synonymous with ritual observance , the mark of a true gentleman .
To live correctly in an interdependent moral and material universe of living and dead was decisive for man's fate .
This , in brief , was the historical background out of which Zen emerged .
Promoters of Zen to the West record its ancestry , and recognize that Zen grew out of a combination of Taoism and Indian Mahayana Buddhism .
But the `` marvelous person '' that is supposed to result from Zen exhibits more Chinese practicality than Indian speculation -- he possesses magical powers , and can use them to order nature and to redeem souls .
Proponents of Zen to the West emphasize disproportionately the amount of Mahayana Buddhism in Zen , probably in order to dignify the indisputably magical Taoist ideas with more respectable Buddhist metaphysic .
But in the Chinese mind , there was little difference between the two -- the bonzes were no more metaphysical than a magician has to be .
Actually , Zen owes more to Chinese Quietism than it does to Mahayana Buddhism .
The Ch'an ( Zen ) sect may have derived its metaphysic from Mahayana , but its psychology was pure early Taoist .
This is well evidenced by the Quietist doctrines carried over in Zen : the idea of the inward turning of thought , the enjoinder to put aside desires and perturbations so that a return to purity , peace , and stillness -- a union with the Infinite , with the Tao -- could be effected .
In fact , the antipathy to outward ceremonies hailed by modern exponents as so uniquely characteristic of the `` direct thinking '' Zennist was a feature of Taoism .
So , too , was the insistence on the relativity of the external world , and the ideas that language and things perceived by consciousness were poor substitutes indeed for immediate perception by pure , indwelling spirit : the opposition of pure consciousness to ratiocinating consciousness .
Zen maintains that cognitive things are only the surface of experience .
One of its features attractive to the West is its irreverence for tradition and dogma and for sacred texts .
One patriarch is supposed to have relegated sacred scriptures for use in an outhouse .
But this is not the spirit of self-reliant freedom of action for which the Westerner mistakes it .
It is simply that in Taoist tradition -- as in all good mysticisms -- books , words , or any other manifestations that belong to the normal state of consciousness are considered only the surface of experience .
The truth -- the Eternal Truth -- is not transmittable by words .
Reality is considered not only irrelevant to the acquisition of higher knowledge , but a positive handicap .
The technique of reality confusion -- the use of paradox and riddles to shake the mind's grip on reality -- originated with fourth and third century B.C. Chinese Quietism : the koan is not basically a new device .
It is important for an understanding of Zen to realize that the esoteric preoccupations of the select few cannot be the doctrine of the common man .
In the supernatural atmosphere of cosmic government , only the ruling elite was ever concerned with a kingdom-wide ordering of nature : popular religion aimed at more personal benefits from magical powers .
And this is only natural -- witness the haste with which modern man gobbles the latest `` wonder drug '' .
Early Chinese anchoritism was theoretically aimed at a mystic pantheist union with the divine , personal salvation being achieved when the mystical recluse united with divine essence .
But this esoteric doctrine was lost in the shuffle to acquire special powers .
The anchorite strove , in fact , to magically influence the world of spirits in the same way that the divine emperor manifested his power .
Thus , the Mahayana metaphysic of mystical union for salvation was distilled down to a bare self-seeking , and for this reason , the mystic in Asia did not long remain in isolated contemplation .
As the Zen literature reveals , as soon as an early Zen master attained fame in seclusion , he was called out into the world to exercise his powers .
The early Anchorite masters attracted disciples because of their presumed ability to perform miracles .
Exponents of Zen often insist that very early Zen doctrine opposed the rampant supernaturalism of China , and proposed instead a more mature , less credulous view of the universe .
In support of this , stories from the early literature are cited to show that Zen attacks the idea of supernatural power .
But actually these accounts reveal the supernatural powers that the masters were in fact supposed to possess , as well as the extreme degree of popular credulity : `` Hwang Pah ( O Baku ) , one day going up Mount Tien Tai which was believed to have been inhabited by Arhats with supernatural powers , met with a monk whose eyes emitted strange light .
They went along the pass talking with each other for a short while until they came to a river roaring with torrent .
There being no bridge , the master had to stop at the shore ; ;
but his companion crossed the river walking on the water and beckoned to Hwang Pah to follow him .
Thereupon Hwang Pah said : `` If I knew thou art an Arhat , I would have doubled you up before thou got over there '' ! !
The monk then understood the spiritual attainment of Hwang Pah , and praised him as a true Mahayanist .
( 1 ) ''
A second tale shows still more clearly the kind of powers a truly spiritual monk could possess : `` On one occasion Yang Shan ( Kyo-zan ) saw a stranger monk flying through the air .
When that monk came down and approached him with a respectful salutation , he asked : `` Where art thou from '' ? ?
`` Early this morning '' , replied the other , `` I set out from India '' .
`` Why '' , said the teacher , `` art thou so late '' ? ?
`` I stopped '' , responded the man , `` several times to look at beautiful sceneries '' .
`` Thou mayst have supernatural powers '' , exclaimed Yang Shan , `` yet thou must give back the Spirit of Buddha to me '' .
Then the monk praised Yang Shan saying : `` I have come over to China in order to worship Manjucri , and met unexpectedly with Minor Shakya '' , and after giving the master some palm leaves he brought from India , went back through the air .
( 2 ) ''
In the popular Chinese mind , Ch'an ( Zen ) was no exception to the ideas of coarse magic that dominated .
A closer look at modern Zen reveals many magical carryovers that are still part of popular Zen attitudes .
To the Zen monk the universe is still populated with `` spiritual beings '' who have to be appeased .
Part of the mealtime ritual in the Zendo consists in offerings of rice to the spiritual beings '' .
Modern Zen presentation to the West insists on the anti-authoritarian , highly pragmatic nature of the Zen belief -- scriptures are burned to make fire , action is based on direct self-confidence , and so on .
This picture of extreme self-reliant individuation is difficult to reconcile with such Zendo formulas as : `` O you , demons and other spiritual beings , I now offer this to you , and may this food fill up the ten quarters of the world and all the demons and other spiritual beings be fed therewith .
( 3 )
Pope Leo 13 , on the 13th day of December 1898 , granted the following indulgences : `` An indulgence of three hundred days is granted to all the Faithful who read the Holy Gospels at least a quarter of an hour .
A Plenary Indulgence under the usual conditions is granted once a month for the daily reading '' .
Pope Pius the Sixth , at Rome , in April , 1778 , wrote the following : `` The faithful should be excited to the reading of the Holy Scriptures : For these are the most abundant sources which ought to be left open to everyone , to draw from them purity of morals and of doctrine , to eradicate errors which are so widely disseminated in these corrupt times '' .
The American Bishops assembled at the Third Plenary Council of Baltimore urged the Catholic people to read the Holy Bible .
`` We hope '' , they said , `` that no family can be found amongst us without a correct version of the Holy Scriptures '' .
They recommended , also , that `` at a fixed hour , let the entire family be assembled for night prayers , followed by a short reading of the Holy Scriptures '' .
Since the Catholic Church expresses such desire that the Sacred Scriptures be read , the following taken from the Holy Bible ( New Catholic Edition ) will prove a means of grace and a source of great spiritual blessing .
The need of the new birth
Do not wonder that I said to thee , `` You must be born again '' .
St. John 3 : 7 .
The new birth is necessary because god is holy .
But as the One who called you is holy , be you also holy in all your behavior ; ;
for it is written , You shall be holy , because I am holy .
1 , St. Peter 15 , 16 .
Holiness without which no man will see God .
Hebrews 14 .
The new birth is necessary because all have sinned .
As it is written , There is not one just man ; ;
there is none who understands ; ;
there is none who seeks after God .
All have gone astray together ; ;
All have sinned and have need of the glory of God .
Romans 3 : 10-12 , 23 .
The new birth is necessary because the natural man is spiritually dead and blind .
Therefore as through one man sin entered into the world and through sin death , and thus death has passed unto all men because all have sinned .
Romans 12 .
You also , when you were dead by reason of your offenses and sins .
Ephesians 2 : 1 .
And if our gospel also is veiled , it is veiled only to those who are perishing .
In their case , the god of this world ( Satan ) has blinded their unbelieving minds , that they should not see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ , who is the image of God .
2 , Corinthians 4 : 3 , 4 .
For his workmanship we are , created in Christ Jesus .
Ephesians 10 .
The new birth is effected through the word of God
.
For you have been reborn , not from corruptible seed but from incorruptible , through the word of God .
1 St. Peter 23 .
Of his own will he has begotten us by the word of truth .
St. James 18 .
Amen , amen , I say to thee , unless a man be born again of water ( symbol of the Word of God , see Ephesians 26 ) and the Spirit , he cannot enter into the kingdom of God .
That which is born of the flesh is flesh ; ;
and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit .
St. John 3 : 5 , 6 .
Evidences of the new birth
if we are born of god we have faith in Christ as the only saviour .
Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God .
1 St. John 5 : 1 .
As many as received him were born of God .
St. John 12 , 13 .
If we are born of God we do not practice sin as a habit .
Whoever is born of God does not commit sin ( That is , he does not practice sin .
Cf. 1 St. John 2 : 1 ) .
1 St. John 3 : 9 .
We know that no one who is born of God commits sin .
1 St. John 18 .
( The new nature , received at the time of regeneration , is divine and holy , and as the believer lives under the power of this new nature he does not practice sin .
) if we are born of god we practice righteousness .
If you know that he ( God ) is just ( righteous ) , know that everyone also who does what is just ( righteous ) has been born of him .
1 St. John 29 .
If we are born of God we love God .
Everyone who loves is born of God , and knows God .
1 St. John 4 : 7 .
If we are born of God we love the brethren .
We know that we have passed from death to life , because we love the brethren .
He who does not love abides in death .
1 St. John 14 .
If we are born of God we overcome the world .
All that is born of God overcomes the world ; ;
and this is the victory that overcomes the world , our faith .
1 St. John 5 : 4 .
If we are born of God we grow in ( not into , but in ) grace .
But grow in grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior , Jesus Christ .
2 St. Peter 18 .
If we are born of God we persevere unto the end .
I am convinced of this , that he who has begun a good work in you will bring it to perfection until the day of Christ Jesus .
Philippians 1 : 6 .
Now to him who is able to preserve you without sin and to set you before the presence of his glory , without blemish , in gladness , to the only God our Savior , through Jesus Christ our Lord , belong glory and majesty , dominion and authority , before all time , and now , and forever .
St. Jude 24 .
The new birth is necessary because the spiritual kingdom requires a spiritual nature .
Jesus answered and said to him ( Nicodemus ) `` Amen , amen , I say to thee , unless a man be born again , he cannot see the kingdom of God '' .
`` Amen , amen , I say to thee , unless a man be born again of water and the Spirit , he cannot enter into the kingdom of God .
That which is born of the flesh is flesh ; ;
and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit .
Do not wonder that I said to thee , ' You must be born again ' '' .
St. John 3 : 3 , 5-7 .
The nature of the new birth
the new birth is a new creation .
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision but a new creation is of any account .
Galatians 15 .
If then any man is in Christ , he is a new creature ( literally , `` He is a new creation ) , the former things have passed away ; ;
behold , they are made new ! !
2 Corinthians 17 .
For by grace you have been saved through faith ; ;
and that not from yourselves , for it is the gift of God ; ;
not as the outcome of works , lest anyone may boast .
For his workmanship we are , created in Christ Jesus .
Ephesians 2 : 8-10 .
The new birth is the implantation of a new life .
I came that they may have life .
St. John 10 .
He who has the Son has the life .
He who has not the Son has not the life .
1 St. John 12 .
He who believes in the Son ( Jesus Christ , the Son of God ) , has everlasting life .
St. John 36 .
The new birth is the impartation of the divine nature .
Through which he has granted us the very great and precious promises , so that through them you may become partaker of the divine nature .
2 St. Peter 1 : 4 .
The new birth is Christ living in you by faith .
Christ in you , your hope of glory .
Colossians 27 .
It is now no longer I that live , but Christ lives in me .
And the life that I now live in the flesh , I live in the faith of the Son of God , who loved me and gave himself up for me .
Galatians 20 .
To have Christ dwelling through faith in your hearts .
Ephesians 17 .
The new birth is miraculous and mysterious .
The wind blows where it will , and thou hearest its sound but dost not know where it comes from or where it goes .
So is everyone who is born of the Spirit .
St. John 3 : 8 .
The new birth is immediate and instantaneous .
Amen , amen , I say to you , he who hears my word , and believes him who sent me , has life everlasting , and does not come to judgment , but has passed from death to life .
St. John 24 .
The means of the new birth
the new birth is a work of god .
But to as many as received him he gave the power of becoming sons of God ; ;
to those who believe in his name : Who were born not of blood , nor of the will of the flesh , nor of the will of man , but of God .
St. John 12 , 13 .
A final word
You may be very religious , a good church member , an upright , honest and sincere person ; ;
you may be baptized , confirmed , reverent and worshipful ; ;
you may attend mass , do penance , say prayers and zealously keep all the sacraments and ceremonies of the church ; ;
you may have the final and extreme unction but if you are not born again you are lost and headed for hell and eternal punishment .
You cannot be saved ; ;
you cannot go to heaven unless you are born again .
Our blessed Lord Jesus Christ , the sinless Son of God , who could not lie , said , `` Amen , amen , I say to thee , unless a man be born again , he cannot see the kingdom of God '' ( St. John 3 : 3 ) .
`` You must be born again '' ( St. John 3 : 7 ) .
Being convinced that salvation is alone by accepting Christ as Saviour , and being convicted by the Holy Spirit of my lost condition , I do repent of all effort to be saved by any form of good works , and just now receive Jesus as my personal Saviour and salvation as a free gift from Him .
You may do as you please with God now .
It is permitted .
God placed Himself in men's hands when He sent Jesus Christ into the world as perfect God and perfect Man in one Being .
He was then in man's hands .
They cursed Him .
It was permitted .
Men spit on Him .
God allowed it .
They called Him a devil .
God withheld His wrath .
Finally men arrested Him , gave Him a mock trial , flogged Him , nailed Him on a cross and hung Him between earth and heaven ; ;
and God allowed it .
You can do likewise though Christ is not bodily present .
You can ignore Him .
You can ignore His Book , the Bible , and His church .
You can laugh at His blood-bought salvation , curse His followers , and laugh at hell .
It is permitted .
The eternal Christ may knock at your soul's door , calling you to give up sin and prepare for heaven .
You may refuse Him , spit on Him , call Him a devil , curse Him .
It is permitted .
You may take His name upon your lips in oaths and curses if you so choose .
He is in your hands -- now .
On the other hand , you may seek His favor , humble yourself before Him and beg His mercy , implore His forgiveness , forsake your sins , and abandon your whole life to Him .
He has said , `` Behold , I stand at the door , and knock : if any man hear my voice , and open the door , I will come in to him , and will sup with him , and he with me '' ( Revelation 3:20 : :
20 ) .
The choice is up to you .
The latch is on your side of the door .
The choice is yours : the revellings and banquetings of this world or quiet communion with God ; ;
the ever burning lusts of the flesh or the powerful victory of Holy Spirit discipline .
The choice is yours : God is in your hands , now .
God has already set the day when you will be in His hands .
What He does with you then depends on what you do with Him now .
Then it will be a `` fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God '' if you have abused Him in your hands .
I am a magazine ; ;
my name is Guideposts ; ;
this issue that you are reading marks my 15th anniversary .
When I came into being , 15 years ago , I had one primary purpose : to help men and women everywhere to know God better , and through knowing Him better to become happier and more effective people .
That purpose has never changed .
When you read me , you are holding in your hands the product of many minds and hearts .
Some of the people who speak through my pages are famous ; ;
others unknown .
Some work with their hands .
Some have walked through pain and sorrow to bring you their message of hope .
Some are so filled with gratitude , for the gift of life and the love of God , that their joy spills out on the paper and brightens the lives of thousands whom they have never known , and will never see .
Fifteen years ago , there were no Guideposts at all .
This month a million Guideposts will circulate all over the world .
Experts in the publishing field consider this astounding .
They do not understand how a small magazine with no advertising and no newsstand sale could have achieved such a following .
To me , the explanation is very simple .
I am not doing anything , of myself .
I am merely a channel for something .
What is this something ? ?
I cannot define it fully .
It is the force in the universe that makes men love goodness , even when they turn away from it .
It is the power that holds the stars in their orbits , but allows the wind to bend a blade of grass .
It is the whisper in the heart that urges each one to be better than he is .
It is mankind's wistful yearning for a world of justice and peace .
All things are possible to God , but He chooses -- usually -- to work through people .
Sometimes such people sense that they are being used ; ;
sometimes not .
Fifteen years ago , troubled by the rising tide of materialism in the post-war world , a businessman and a minister asked themselves if there might not be a place for a small magazine in which men and women , regardless of creed or color , could set forth boldly their religious convictions and bear witness to the power of faith to solve the endless problems of living .
The businessman was Raymond Thornburg .
The minister was Norman Vincent Peale .
Neither had any publishing experience , but they had faith in their idea .
They borrowed a typewriter , raised about $2,000 in contributions , hired a secretary , persuaded a couple of young men to join them for almost no pay and began mailing out a collection of unstapled leaflets that they called Guideposts .
Compared to the big , established magazines , my first efforts seemed feeble indeed .
But from the start they had two important ingredients : sincerity and realism .
The people who told the stories were sincere .
And the stories they told were true .
For example , early in my life , when one of my editorial workers wanted to find out how churches and philanthropic organizations met the needs of New York's down-and-outers , he didn't just ask questions .
Len LeSourd went and lived in the slums as a sidewalk derelict for ten days .
That was nearly 13 years ago .
Len LeSourd is my executive editor today .
Many of you are familiar , I'm sure , with the story of my early struggles : the fire in January , 1947 , that destroyed everything -- even our precious list of subscribers .
The help and sympathy that were forthcoming from everywhere .
The crisis later on when debts seemed about to overwhelm me .
That was when a remarkable woman , Teresa Durlach , came to my aid -- not so much with money , as with wisdom and courage .
`` You're not living up to your own principles '' , she told my discouraged people .
`` You're so preoccupied that you've let your faith grow dim .
What do you want -- a hundred thousand subscribers ? ?
Visualize them , then , believe you are getting them , and you will have them '' ! !
And the 100,000 subscribers became a reality .
And then 500,000 .
And now a million January Guideposts are in circulation .
With our growth came expansion into new fields of service .
Today more than a thousand industries distribute me to their employees .
They say all personnel have spiritual needs which Guideposts helps to meet .
Hundreds of civic clubs , business firms and individuals make me available to school teachers throughout the land .
They say it helps them bring back into schools the spiritual and moral values on which this country was built .
Thousands of free copies are sent each month to chaplains in the Armed Forces , to prison libraries and to hospitals everywhere .
Bedridden people say I am easy to hold -- and read .
Three years ago it became possible to finance a Braille edition for blind readers .
Throughout these exciting years I have been fortunate for , although I have never offered great financial inducements , talent has found its way to me : William Boal who so ably organizes business operations ; ;
John Beach who guides circulation ; ;
Irving Granville and Nelson Rector who travel widely calling on business firms .
Searching for the best in spiritual stories , my roving editors cover not only the country , but the whole world .
Glenn Kittler has been twice to Africa , once spending a week with Dr. Albert Schweitzer .
Last summer John and Elizabeth Sherrill were in Alaska .
Van Varner recently returned from Russia .
Twice a month the editorial staff meets in New York for an early supper , then a long evening of idea-exchange .
Around the table sit Protestant , Catholic , and Jew .
Each contributes something different , and something important : Ruth Peale , her wide experience in church work ; ;
Sidney Fields , years of experience as a New York columnist ; ;
Catherine Marshall LeSourd , the insight that has made her books world-famous and Norm Mullendore , the keen perception of an advertising executive .
There are people who travel long distances to assure my continued existence .
Elaine St. Johns may fly in from the West Coast for the editorial staff meetings .
Starr Jones gets up every morning at five o'clock , milks his family cow , attends to farm chores , and then takes a two-hour train trip to New York .
Arthur Gordon comes once a month all the way from Georgia .
We have also seen the power of faith at work among us .
Rose Weiss , who handles all the prayer-requests that we receive , answering each letter personally , has the serene selflessness that comes from suffering : she has had many major operations , and now gets about in a limited way on braces and crutches .
Recently , John Sherrill was stricken with one of the deadliest forms of cancer .
We prayed for John , during surgery , we asked others to pray ; ;
all over the country a massive shield of prayer was thrown around him .
Today the cancer is gone .
Perhaps it is not fair to mention some people without mentioning all .
But , you see , those who are not mentioned will not resent it .
That is the kind of people they are .
Perhaps you think the editorial meetings are solemn affairs , a little sanctimonious ? ?
Not so .
Serious , yes , but also much laughter .
Sharp division of opinion , too , and strenuous debate .
There are brain-wracking searches for the right word , the best phrase , the most helpful idea .
And there is also something intangible that hovers around the table .
A good word for it is fellowship .
A shorter word is .
Each meeting starts with a prayer , offered spontaneously by one member of the group .
It takes many forms , this prayer , but in essence it is always a request for guidance , for open minds and gentle hearts , for honesty and sincerity , for the wisdom and the insights that will help Guideposts' readers .
For you , readers , are an all-important part of the spiritual experiment that is Guideposts .
I need your support , your criticism , your encouragement , your prayers .
I am a magazine ; ;
my name is Guideposts .
My message , today , is the same as it was 15 years ago : that there is goodness in people , and strength and love in God .
May He bless you all .
Havana was filled with an excitement which you could see in the brightness of men's eyes and hear in the pitch of their voices .
The hated dictator Batista had fled .
Rumors flew from lip to lip that Fidel Castro was on his way to Havana , coming from the mountains where he had fought Batista for five years .
Already the city was filled with Barbudos , the bearded , war-dirty Revolutionaries , carrying carbines , waving to the crowds that lined the Prado .
And then Castro himself did come , bearded , smiling ; ;
yet if you looked closely you'd see that his eyes did not pick up the smile on his lips .
At first I was happy to throw the support of our newspaper behind this man .
I am sure that Castro was happy , too , about that support .
Diario De La Marina was the oldest and most influential paper in Cuba , with a reputation for speaking out against tyranny .
My grandfather had been stoned because of his editorials .
My own earliest memories are of exiles : my three brothers and I were taken often to the United States `` to visit relatives '' while my father stayed on to fight the dictator Machado .
When it was my turn , I , too , printed the truth as I knew it about Batista , and rejoiced to see his regime topple .
None of us was aware that the biggest fight was still ahead .
I was full of hope as Fidel Castro came into Havana .
Within a week , however , I began to suspect that something was wrong .
For Castro was bringing Cuba not freedom , but hatred .
He spent long hours before the TV spitting out promises of revenge .
He showed us how he dealt with his enemies : he executed them before TV cameras .
On home sets children were watching the death throes of men who were shot before the paredon , the firing wall .
Castro's reforms ? ?
He seemed bent on coupling them with vengeance .
New schools were rising , but with this went a harsh proclamation : any academic degree earned during Batista's regime was invalid .
Economic aid ? ?
He had promised cheaper housing : arbitrarily he cut all rents in half , whether the landlord was a millionaire speculator or a widow whose only income was the rental of a spare room .
Under another law , hundreds of farms were seized .
Farm workers had their wages cut almost in half .
Of this , only 50 cents a day was paid in cash , the rest in script usable only in `` People's Stores '' .
A suspicion was growing that Fidel Castro was a Communist .
In my mind , I began to review : his use of hate to gain support ; ;
his People's Courts ; ;
his division of society into two classes , one the hero , the other the villain .
But most disturbing of all were the advisers he called to sit with him in the Palace ; ;
many came from Communist countries .
What should I do about it , I asked myself ? ?
I had watched Castro handling his enemies before the paredon .
There was no doubt in my mind that if I crossed him , mobs would appear outside our windows shouting `` Paredon ! !
Paredon ! !
''
What should I do ? ?
I was proud of the new buildings which housed Diario now : the rotogravures , gleaming behind glass doors ; ;
the thump and whir of our new presses .
Here was a powerful , ready-made medium , but it could speak only if I told it to .
Then one day , early in January , 1960 , I sat down at my desk , and suddenly I was aware of the crucifix .
It was a simple ivory crucifix which my mother had given me .
I had mounted it on velvet and hung it over my desk to remind me always to use the power of the paper in a Christian manner .
Now it seemed almost as if Jesus were looking down at me with sadness in His eyes , saying :
`` You will lose the paper .
You may lose your life .
But do you have any choice '' ? ?
I knew in that moment that I did not have any choice .
From that day on I began to write editorials about the things I did not think correct in Fidel Castro's regime .
Too often a beginning bodybuilder has to do his training secretly either because his parents don't want sonny-boy to `` lift all those old barbell things '' because `` you'll stunt your growth '' or because childish taunts from his schoolmates , like `` Hey lookit Mr. America ; ;
whaddya gonna do with all those muscles ( of which he has none at the time ) '' ? ?
After all , a guy's gotta have a little ego ! !
Therefore it's a genuine pleasure to tell you about an entirely happy bodybuilder who has never had to train in secret has never heard one unkind word from his parents and never has been taunted by his schoolmates ! !
This happy , always smiling lad with the sunny disposition is our new Junior Mr. Canada -- Henri De Courcy .
Far from discouraging Henri , his parents urge him on to greater and greater accomplishments .
Instead of admonishing him to let the weights alone they personally took him to that master Montreal bodybuilding authority , Professor Roland Claude .
And they couldn't have entrusted Henri to better hands because `` le professeur '' knows his muscles from the sterno-cleido mastoideus of the neck right down to the tibialis anticus of the leg and better still , he knows just what exercises work best for them and what Weider principles to combine them with for fast , fast muscle growth .
That's because the good professor teaches only Weider methods at his famous Montreal Health Studio which is located at 1821 Mt. Royal East in Montreal .
Undoubtedly you have read the case histories of some of his prize-winning pupils ( every pupil has a physique title of some kind or other ) .
There's Gaetan D'Amours who is our newest Mr. Canada ; ;
Jean-Paul Senesac , whose story appeared here two issues ago ; ;
Jack Boissoneault , who was with us last month ; ;
Charles Harve , who recently won the `` Most Muscular Man '' subdivision award in the Mr. Canada event ; ;
and a host of others .
Yesiree , the professor knows his muscles ! !
Now when Henri was just 12 he was only 4' 10'' '' tall and weighed an astounding 72 pounds , and his greatest desire was to pack on some weight .
About that time he began reading Mr. America and Muscle Builder and he learned of the famous Weider way to fast weight gaining .
Seeing so many illustrations and reading so many testimonials to the value of Quick-Wate and Super-Protein , those two wonder-working Weider food supplements , he decided to try them and see what they could do for him .
Well , sir they did real great ! !
For in almost less time than it takes to tell it , Henri's bodyweight was increasing rapidly .
Of course he did some exercising .
He's crazy about water skiing and swimming and this vigorous exercise in conjunction with the added food supplements packed pounds of solid muscle on his skinny frame .
Henri has always had shapely legs from swimming and water skiing and really doesn't have to work them very much .
But he was totally dissatisfied with his upper body .
It was muscular but it wasn't symmetrical .
`` A real ' nothing ' torso '' , says Henri .
`` It never seemed to widen .
It just got longer and longer '' .
That's when he went to Professor Claude .
And at once Claude saw what the trouble was and he knew just how to correct it .
In his gym the professor has some of the most `` knocked out '' equipment since Vic Tanny .
Mr. Claude is a specialist in torso development and he has long favored the now-famous Weider Push-Pull Super-Set technique in which one exercise of the Super-Set is a pressing or `` pushing '' movement which accents one sector of a muscle group in a specific way , followed by a `` pulling '' exercise which works the opposing sector of the same muscle group .
So right away Claude introduced Henri to his famous `` moon '' bench and proceeded to teach him his first Push-Pull Super-Set consisting of the wide-grip Straight-Arm Pullover ( the `` pull '' part of the Push-Pull Super-Set ) which dramatically widens the ribcage and strongly affects the muscles of the upper back and chest and the collar-to-collar Bench Press which specifically works on the chest to build those wide , Reeves-type `` gladiator '' pecs , while stimulating the upper lats and frontal deltoids .
As you can see , in this Push-Pull Super Set the entire chest-back-shoulder area is vigorously exercised in alternate sectors by alternate exercises so the complete torso remains pumped-up all the time ! !
Now when Henri has completed four complete Push-Pull Super-Sets No. 1 , the professor allows him about a five-minute rest period before starting him on four complete Push-Pull Super-Sets No. 2 .
Super-Set No. 2 is made up of similar exercises , but this time done with dumbbells , and using both `` moon '' and flat benches .
The `` push '' exercise of this Push-Pull Super-Set is the Bench Press done with elbows well pulled back and with a greater downward stretch of the pectorals not possible with the barbell variation .
You need the barbell variation to build width and mass in the pecs .
The dumbbell variation develops a most classically sculptured outline to the Aj .
The `` pull '' exercise in this Super-Set is the one-dumbbell Bent-Arm Pullover .
( Note how strongly the upper lats and serratus are worked in this fine exercise because of the pin-point concentration of force which the dumbbell variation affords ) .
In the third Push-Pull Super-Set the `` push '' exercise is the widegrip Pushup Between Bars , while the `` pull '' exercise is the Moon Bench Lateral Raise with bent arms .
The Pushup done in this manner is the greatest pectoral-ribcage stretcher ever invented ! !
This is true only if a very wide grip is used and only when the greatest possible stretch is achieved .
You'll know when you've made the greatest stretch because your shoulder blades will touch ! !
As you see , the professor has designed a piece of apparatus that forces the bodybuilder to use a w-i-d-e grip .
He has to ; ;
he just can't do anything about it at all ! !
But as you can also see , it's not a painful exercise at all , because Henri De Courcy -- the `` happy '' bodybuilder -- looks as though he were having the time of his life ! !
The last exercise of Roland Claude's prescribed program for Henri is a single exercise , done in individual sets with a bit longer pause between sets .
By this time Henri's entire chest-back-lat-shoulder area is pumped-up to almost bursting point , and Claude takes time to do a bit more pectoral-front deltoid shaping work .
He has Henri do from four to six sets of the Incline Bench Press ( note the high incline ) .
This gives a wide flare to the pecs , causing them to flow dramatically upward into deltoids and dramatically downward into the serratus and Aj .
This is the kind of chest that invariably wins contests ; ;
that steel-edged `` carved-out-of-solid rock '' looks of the great champions .
So with four complete Push-Pull Super-Sets No. 1 , four of No. 2 , four of No. 3 and four to six sets of the Incline Bench Press , you can see that Henri De Courcy has had a terrific mass-building , muscle-shaping , torso-defining workout that cannot be improved upon .
Physique contests are rarely won on muscle size alone .
Rarer still is a Mr. America or Mr. Universe of true Herculean build .
The aspects of physical development that catch the judges' eyes and which rightfully influence their decisions are symmetry and that hallmark of the true champion -- superior definition of the muscles .
Now good definition is one thing that all of us can acquire with occasional high-set , high-rep , light-weight workouts .
But contest definition -- that dramatic muscular separation of every muscle group that seems as though it must have been carved by a sculptor's chisel -- is something quite different .
This comes not alone from high-set , high-rep training , but from certain definition-specialization exercises which the champion selects for himself with the knowledge of exactly what works best for him .
Often these exercises work well for some bodybuilders but less spectacularly for others .
Because they are `` minority '' exercises and have but a limited appeal they soon find themselves in the limbo of the forgotten .
Only when the newest Mr. America or Mr. Universe discovers them and puts them into practice are we reacquainted with them and once again see how effective they really are .
The exercise I shall discuss in this -- the first of a new series of articles on muscle definition-specialization of a particular body part -- is the One Leg Lunge .
Why it was ever forgotten for even a moment I cannot say because it works perfectly for everyone , no matter whether he has short or long thigh-bone lengths ! !
It is the one exercise that drastically influences the definition of the thighs at the hipline -- that mark of the champion that sets him apart from all other bodybuilders ; ;
a criterion of muscle `` drama '' that is unforgettable to judges and audiences alike ; ;
the facet of muscular development that wins prizes .
Definition of the thighs at the uppermost part is quite commonly seen in most championship Olympic lifters which is easily understandable .
The One Leg Lunge is a split and all lifters practice this in their regular workouts .
But for purely definition purposes -- used in conjunction with your regular Squatting , Leg Curling , Leg Extensor programs -- a heavy weight is not needed .
Indeed , a lighter weight works much better because a greater , more extensive split can be performed .
Used in several sets of high reps once or twice each week it will not be long before your entire upper leg takes on a razor-sharp definition in which the muscles look like wire cables writhing and twisting under the skin ! !
Really there is no reason why this fine exercise should not find its way into your leg program at all times , for the following suggestions show why it is so effective : 1 .
It's a complete thigh contraction-extension exercise .
2 .
It places terrific tension on the leg muscles from start to finish of each repetition .
3 .
It improves over-all balance and control for the bodybuilder , and helps to make Squats more easily and more correctly performed .
4 .
It increases flexibility of the legs .
5 .
It speeds muscle growth and power development even for the advanced bodybuilder because each hip and leg is exercised separately , thus enabling a massive , concentrated effort to be focused on each .
You'll need your Weider Power Stands for this fine exercise and here's the way it's done : 1 .
Place your Power Stands in position and adjust their height so that this will correspond to the height of your shoulders when you are in a deep leg split as for a heavy Clean .
2 .
Place a suitably-loaded barbell across them ; ;
grasp the bar ( which will rest against the back of your neck ) ; ;
extend your feet forward and backward until you are in a deep leg split .
Now raise the weight by straightening your front leg , without moving your feet .
When the front knee is straight and locked , allow it to bend again until you feel the bar come lightly into contact with the sides of the Power Stands .
3 .
After you have taken a breather , reverse the position of your legs so that the front thigh of the previous exercise is now to the rear , and the rear thigh now to the front , and perform the same movement in the same manner .
That's the One-Leg Lunge in a nutshell .
You should have a couple of training partners to stand by when you make your first experiments just for safety .
You should also begin this exercise with a very light barbell until you become accustomed to it balance-wise .
Oh , you'll wobble and weave quite a bit at first .
But don't worry .
Before your first training experiment has ended there will be a big improvement and almost before you know it you'll be raising and lowering yourself just like a veteran ! !
Although I suggested that you hold the bar at the back of the neck there's no reason why you shouldn't make some experiments with the bar held in front of the neck .
Squat-style lifters and leg-split lifters would both benefit enormously by practicing those variations providing that they remember to make alternate sets with the left and right leg to the front .
The most beautiful bed of pansies I've seen was in a South Dakota yard on a sizzling day .
Pansies are supposed to like it cool , but those great velvety flowers were healthy and perky in the glaring sun .
I sought out the gardener and asked him what he did to produce such beauties in that weather .
He seemed puzzled by my question .
`` I just love them '' , he said .
The more I talked with him , the more convinced I became that that was the secret of their riotous blooming .
Of course his love was expressed in intelligent care .
He planted the pansy seeds himself , buying them from a pansy specialist .
These specialists , I learned , have done a great deal of work to improve the size and health of the plants and the resulting flowers .
Their seeds produce vigorous blooming plants half again the size of the unimproved strains .
I asked him if he took seeds from his own plants .
Occasionally , when he had an unusual flower that he wanted more of he did ; ;
but pansy seeds , he told me , soon `` run down '' .
It's best to buy them fresh from a dealer who is working to improve them .
His soil was `` nothing special '' , just prairie land , but he had harrowed in compost until it was loose , spongy and brown-black .
I fingered it and had the feeling of adequacy that comes with the right texture , tilth and body .
It isn't easy to describe it , but every gardener knows it when his fingers touch such soil .
Nothing is easier to grow from seed than pansies .
They germinate quickly , the tiny plants appearing in a week , and grow along lustily .
It doesn't really matter which month of the year you sow them , but they germinate best when they have a wide variation of temperature , very warm followed by cool in the same 24 hours .
I like to make a seedbed right in the open , though many people start them successfully in cold frames .
Pansies don't have to be coddled ; ;
they'd rather have things rugged , with only moderate protection on the coldest days .
If you do use a cold frame be sure that its ventilation is adequate .
For my seedbed I use good garden soil with a little sand added to encourage rooting .
I dig it , rake it smooth , sow the seeds and wet them down with a fog spray .
Then I cover the sowing with a board .
This keeps it cool and moist and protects it from birds .
Ants carry away the seeds so better be sure that there are no ant hills nearby .
When the first sprinkling of green appears I remove the board .
A light , porous mulch applied now keeps the roots cool and the soil soft during these early days of growth .
I like sawdust for this , or hay .
When they have 4 to 6 leaves and are thrifty little plants , it's time to set them out where they are to remain .
Every time you transplant a pansy you cause its flowers to become smaller .
The moral is : don't transplant it any oftener than you must .
As soon as they are large enough to move , I put mine 9 inches apart where they are to bloom .
I put a little scoop of pulverized phosphate rock or steamed bone meal into each hole with the plant .
That encourages rooting , and the better developed the roots , the larger and more plentiful the flowers .
Pansies are gluttons .
I doubt if it is possible to overfeed them .
I spade lots of compost into their bed ; ;
lacking that , decayed manure spread over the bed is fine .
One year I simply set the plants in the remains of a compost pile , to which a little sand had been added , and I had the most beautiful pansies in my , or any of my neighbors' experience .
In addition to the rich soil they benefit by feedings of manure water every other week , diluted to the color of weak tea .
As a substitute for this , organic fertilizer dissolved in water to half the strength in the directions , may be used .
They need mulch .
We put a light mulch over the seedlings ; ;
now we must use a heavy one .
Three inches of porous material will do a good job of keeping weeds down and the soil moist and cool .
When winter comes be ready with additional mulch .
I like hay for this and apply it so that only the tops of the plants show right after a good frost .
That keeps in the cold , retains moisture and prevents the heaving of alternate freezing and thawing .
Don't miss the pansies that appear from time to time through the winter .
Whenever there is a thaw or a few sunny days , you'll be likely to find a brave little blossom or two .
If those aren't enough for you , why not grow some just for winter blooming ? ?
The pansies I cherished most bloomed for me in February during a particularly cold winter .
I started the seed in a flat in June and set out the little pansies in a cold frame .
( An unheated greenhouse would have been better , if I had had one .
) The plants took zero nights in their stride , with nothing but a mat of straw over the glass to protect them .
In response to the lengthening days of February they budded , then bloomed their 4-inch velvety flowers .
That cold frame was my morale builder ; ;
its mass of bright bloom set in a border of snow made my spirits rise every time I looked at it .
Like strawberries in December , pansies are far more exciting in February than in May .
Try that late winter pickup when you are so tired of cold and snow that you feel you just can't take another day of it .
The day will come , in midsummer , when you find your plants becoming `` leggy '' , running to tall-growing foliage at the expense of blossoms .
Try pegging down each separate branch to the earth , using a bobby pin to hold it there .
Pick the flowers , keep the soil dampened , and each of the pegged-down branches will take root and become a little plant and go on blooming for the rest of the season .
As soon as an experimental tug assures you that roots have taken over , cut it off from the mother plant .
A second and also good practice is to shear off the tops , leaving an inch high stub with just a leaf or two on each branch .
These cut-down plants will bud and blossom in record time and will behave just as they did in early spring .
I like to shear half my plants at a time , leaving one half of them to blossom while the second half is getting started on its new round of blooming .
Probably no one needs to tell you that the way to stop all bloom is to let the blossoms go to seed .
Nature's aim , different from ours , is to provide for the coming generation .
That done , her work is accomplished and she ignores the plant .
Here is a word of advice when you go shopping for your pansy seeds .
Go to a reputable grower , preferably a pansy specialist .
It is no harder to raise big , healthy , blooming plants than weak , sickly little things ; ;
in fact it is easier .
But you will never get better flowers than the seed you grow .
Many people think that pansies last only a few weeks , then their period of growth and bloom is over .
That is not true .
If the plants are cared for and protected over the winter , the second year is more prolific than the first .
Would you like to grow exhibition pansies ? ?
Remove about half the branches from each plant , leaving only the strongest with the largest buds .
The flowers will be huge .
Pansies have character .
They stick to their principles , insist upon their due , but grow and bloom with dependable regularity if given it .
Treat them right and they'll make a showing every month in the year except the frigid ones .
Give them food , some shade , mulch , water and more food , and they'll repay your solicitude with beauty .
A salad with greens and tomato is a popular and wonderfully healthful addition to a meal , but add an avocado and you have something really special .
This delightful tropical fruit has become well-known in the past thirty years because modern transportation methods have made it possible to ship avocados anywhere in the United States .
It has a great many assets to recommend it and if you haven't made avocado a part of your diet yet , you really should .
You will find that avocado is unlike any other fruit you have ever tasted .
It is roughly shaped like a large pear , and when properly ripened , its dark green skin covers a meaty , melon-like pulp that has about the consistency of a ripe Bartlett pear , but oily .
The avocado should have a `` give '' to it , as you hold it , when it is ripe .
The flavor is neither sweet , like a pear , nor tart like an orange ; ;
it is subtle and rather bland , nut-like .
It is a flavor that might take a little getting used to -- not because it is unpleasant , but because the flavor is hard to define in the light of our experience with other fruits .
Sometimes it takes several `` eatings '' of avocado to catch that delightful quality in taste that has made it such a favorite throughout the world .
Once you become an avocado fan , you will look forward to the season each year with eager anticipation .
Naturally dormant and no spray danger
Today , refrigerated carriers have made the shipping of avocados possible to any place in the world .
The fruit is allowed to mature on the tree , but it is still firm at this point .
It is brought to packing houses , cleaned and graded as to size and quality , and packed in protective excelsior .
The fruit is then cooled to 42-degrees-F. , a temperature at which it lapses into a sort of dormant state .
This cooling does not change the avocado in any way , it just delays the natural softening of the fruit until a grovelike temperature ( room temperature ) is restored .
This happens on the grocer's shelf or in your kitchen .
One of the most attractive things about avocados is that they do not require processing of any kind .
There is no dyeing or waxing or gassing needed .
If the temperature is controlled properly , the avocado will delay its ripening until needed .
And unlike other fruits , one cannot eat the skin of the avocado .
It is thick , much like an egg plant's skin , so that poison sprays , if they are used , present no hazard to the consumer .
Nutritious and a cholesterol reducer
Good taste and versatility , plus safety from spray poisons would be enough to recommend the frequent use of such a fruit , even if its nutritional values were limited .
Avocados , however , are very rich in nutrients .
Their main asset is an abundance of unsaturated fatty acids , so necessary for maintaining the good health of the circulatory system .
Aside from this , the average portion contains some protein , an appreciable amount of vitamins A and C -- about one-tenth of the minimum daily requirement , and about a third of the official vitamin E requirement .
The B vitamins are well represented , especially thiamin and riboflavin .
Calcium , phosphorus and iron are present in worthwhile amounts , and eleven other minerals also have been found in varying trace amounts .
None of these values is destroyed , not significantly altered by refrigeration storage .
Dr. Wilson C. Grant , of the Veterans' Administration Hospital , Coral Gables , Florida , and the University of Miami School of Medicine , set out to discover if avocados , because of their high content of unsaturated fatty acids , would reduce the cholesterol of the blood in selected patients .
The study comprised 16 male patients , ranging in age from 27 to 72 .
They were put on control diets to determine as accurately as possible , the normal cholesterol level of their blood .
Then they were given 1/2 to 1-1/2 avocados per day as a substitute for part of their dietary fat consumption .
Five , four , three , two , one , fire ! !
The tremendous energy released by giant rocket engines perhaps can be felt much better than it can be heard .
The pulsating vibration of energy clutches at the pit of your stomach .
Never before has the introduction of a weapon caused so much apprehension and fear .
Nuclear weapons are fearsome , but the long-range ballistic missile gives them a stealth and merciless swiftness which is much more terrifying .
A great many writers are bewitched by the apparently overwhelming advantage an attacker would have if he were to strike with complete surprise using nuclear rockets .
It is relatively easy to go a step further and reason that an attacker , in possession of such absolute power , would simultaneously destroy his opponent's cities and people .
With a nation defenseless before it , why would the attacker spare the victim's people ? ?
Wouldn't the wanton destruction of cities and people be the logical act of complete subjugation ? ?
The nation would be utterly devastated .
The will of its people , so crucial in time of peril , would be broken .
Nuclear weapons have given the world the means for self-destruction in hours or days ; ;
and now rockets have given it the means to destroy itself in minutes .
At this point it should be painfully obvious that cities , being `` soft '' , and the people within them are ideally suited to destruction by nuclear weapons .
However , because this vulnerability is mutual , it is to the advantage of neither side to destroy the opponent's cities , at least so long as the opponent has nuclear weapons with which to effect reprisal .
It should be appallingly apparent that city-trading is not a profitable military tactic .
ICBMs have given us a capability which could be used in two different ways .
They could be used to attack a nation's people ( which would inevitably mean the loss of the attacker's own people ) , or they could be used with discrimination to destroy the enemy's military force .
If our national interest lies in being able to fight and win a war rather than committing national suicide , then we must take a much more penetrating look at ballistic missiles .
We must determine whether missiles can win a war all by themselves .
We must make certain that the aircraft is finished before we give the entire job to the missile .
Missiles are very valuable weapons , but they also have their too little known limitations .
Because of a missile's ballistic trajectory , the location of a fixed target must be known quite accurately .
Placing missiles in submarines , on barges , railroads , highways , surface vessels and in the air provides them with passive protection by taking advantage of the gravest weakness of long-range ballistic missiles today -- the extreme difficulty of destroying a mobile or moving target with such weapons .
One must first detect a fleeting mobile or moving target , decide that it is worthy of destruction , select the missile to be fired against the target , compute ballistics for the flight , and prepare the missile for firing .
Even if all these operations could be performed instantaneously , the ICBM still has a time of flight to the target of about 30 minutes .
Therefore , if the target can significantly change its location in something less than 30 minutes , the probability of having destroyed it is drastically lowered .
Because of this , it would appear inevitable that an increasing percentage of strategic missiles will seek self-protection in mobility -- at least until missile defenses are perfected which have an exceedingly high kill probability .
In order to destroy the enemy's mobile , moving , or imprecisely located strategic forces , we must have a hunter-killer capability in addition to our missiles .
Until this hunter-killer operation can be performed by spacecraft , manned aircraft appear to be the only means available to us .
It seems reasonable that if general nuclear war is not to be one cataclysmic act of burning each other's citizens to cinders , we must have a manned strategic force of long-endurance aircraft capable of going into China or Russia to find and destroy their strategic forces which continued to threaten us .
Let us suppose the Russians decide to build a rail-mobile ICBM force .
It is entirely feasible to employ aircraft such as the B-52 or B-70 in hunter-killer operations against Soviet railway-based missiles .
If we stop thinking in terms of tremendous multimegaton nuclear weapons and consider employing much smaller nuclear weapons which may be more appropriate for most important military targets , it would seem that the B-52 or B-70 could carry a great many small nuclear weapons .
An aircraft with a load of small nuclear weapons could very conceivably be given a mission to suppress all trains operating within a specified geographic area of Russia -- provided that we had used some of our ICBMs to degrade Russia's air defenses before our bombers got there .
The aircraft could be used to destroy other mobile , fleeting , and imprecisely located targets as well as the known , fixed and hardened targets which can also be destroyed by missile .
Why , then , aren't we planning a larger , more important role for manned military aircraft ? ?
Is there any other way to do the job ? ?
Survivability of our strategic forces ( Polaris , mobile and hardened Minuteman , hardened Atlas and Titan , and airborne Skybolt ) means that it will take some time , perhaps weeks , to destroy a strategic force .
War , under these circumstances , cannot be one massive exchange of nuclear devastation .
Forces will survive a surprise attack , and these forces will give depth , or considerable duration , to the conflict .
The forces which survive the initial attack must be found and destroyed .
Even mobile forces must be found and destroyed .
But , how does one go about the job of finding and destroying mobile forces ? ?
They are not susceptible to wholesale destruction by ballistic missile .
Some day , many years in the future , true spacecraft will be able to find and destroy mobile targets .
But until we have an effective spacecraft , the answer to the hunter-killer problem is manned aircraft .
However , the aircraft which we have today are tied to large , `` soft '' airfields .
Nuclear rockets can destroy airfields with ease .
Here then is our problem : aircraft are vital to winning a war today because they can perform those missions which a missile is totally incapable of performing ; ;
but the airfield , on which the aircraft is completely dependent , is doomed by the missile .
This makes today's aircraft a one-shot , or one mission , weapon .
Aircraft are mighty expensive if you can use them only once .
This is the point on which so many people have written off the aircraft in favor of the missile .
But remember this -- it isn't the aircraft which is vulnerable to nuclear rockets , it is the airfield .
Eliminate the vulnerability of aircraft on the ground and you have essentially eliminated its vulnerability to long-range ballistic missiles .
There are four rather obvious ways to reduce or eliminate the vulnerability of aircraft on the ground :
Put aircraft in `` bomb-proof '' hangars when they are on the ground .
Build long-range aircraft which can take off from small ( 3,000-foot ) airfields with runways .
If we could use all the small airfields we have in this country , we could disperse our strategic aircraft by a factor of 10 or more .
Use nuclear propulsions to keep our long-range military aircraft in the air for the majority of their useful life .
Using very high thrust-to-weight ratio engines , develop a vertical-takeoff-and-landing ( VTOL ) long-range military aircraft .
We have the technology today with which to build aircraft shelters which could withstand at least 200 Aj .
We could put a portion of our strategic bombers in such shelters .
Large , long-range bombers can be developed which would have the capability to take off from 3,000-foot runways , but they would require more powerful engines than we have today .
There is little enthusiasm for spending money to develop more powerful engines because of the erroneous belief that the aircraft has been made obsolete by the missile .
This same preoccupation with missiles at the expense of aircraft has resulted in our half-hearted effort to develop nuclear propulsion for aircraft .
One seldom hears the analogy `` nuclear propulsion will do for the aircraft what it has already done for the submarine '' .
If , for some reason such as economy , we are not going to develop aircraft nuclear propulsion with a sense of national urgency , then we should turn our effort to developing jet engines with a thrust-to-weight ratio of 12 or 15 to one .
With powerplants such as these , vertical takeoff and landing combat aircraft could be built .
For example , a 12-to-one engine would power a supersonic VTOL fighter .
With a 15-to-one engine , a supersonic aircraft weighing 300,000 pounds could rise vertically .
The reason that we are not going ahead full speed to develop high thrust-to-weight engines is that it would cost perhaps a billion dollars -- and you don't spend that sort of money if aircraft are obsolete .
When aircraft are no longer helpless on airfields , they are no longer vulnerable to Aj .
If our SAC bombers were , today , capable of surviving a surprise missile attack and because of infinite dispersion or long endurance had the capability to strike at Russia again , and again , and again , those bombers would unquestionably assure our military dominance .
We would have the means to seek out and destroy the enemy's force -- whether it were fixed or mobile .
With such a force of manned bombers we could bring enormous pressure to bear on an enemy , and this pressure would be selective and extremely discriminating .
No need to kill an entire city and all its people because we lacked the precision and reconnaissance to selectively disarm the enemy's military force .
Our first necessity , at the very outset of war , is post-attack reconnaissance .
In a few years we will have SAMOS ( semiautomatic missile observation system ) .
But in the case of moving targets , and targets which have limited mobility , what will their location be when it is time to destroy them ? ?
What targets have we successfully knocked out ? ?
A ballistic missile cannot , today , tell you if it was successful or unsuccessful .
What targets still remain to be hit ? ?
These crucial questions must be answered by post-attack reconnaissance .
SAMOS will be hard put to see through clouds -- and to see in the dark .
Even if this is some day possible , there remains the 30-minute time of flight of a missile to its overseas target .
If the target can change its position significantly during the 30 minutes the missile is in the air on its way , the probability of the missile destroying the target is drastically reduced .
Pre-attack reconnaissance is vital but only post-attack reconnaissance will allow us to terminate the war favorably .
It would be priceless to have an aircraft to gather that post-attack reconnaissance .
It could operate under the clouds and perform infrared photography through clouds and at night .
It would be even more valuable because that same aircraft could immediately destroy any targets it discovered -- no need to wait for a missile to come all the way from the United States with the chance that the target , if it were mobile , would be gone .
A large aircraft , such as the B-52 or B-70 , could carry perhaps 50 or 100 small nuclear weapons .
Few people realize that one kiloton of nuclear explosive power will create 1,000 psi overpressure at 100 feet .
Or put another way , the hardest missile site planned today could be destroyed by placing a one-kiloton warhead ( 1/20th the size of those used in Hiroshima and Nagasaki ) within 100 to 200 feet of the target ! !
It is our lack of extreme accuracy which forces the use of very large yield nuclear weapons .
Today we have side-looking radar which has such high resolution that the radar picture clearly shows individual buildings , runways , taxi-ways , separate spans of bridges , etc. .
With these keen `` eyes '' and small nuclear weapons delivered with accuracy , military forces can be directly attacked with minimum damage to urban areas .
If we fail to develop the means to hunt down and destroy the enemy's military force with extreme care and precision , and if war comes in spite of our most ardent desires for peace , our choice of alternatives will be truly frightening .
The lyric beauties of Schubert's Trout Quintet -- its elemental rhythms and infectious melodies -- make it a source of pure pleasure for almost all music listeners .
But for students of musical forms and would-be classifiers , the work presents its problems .
Since it requires only five players , it would seem to fall into the category of chamber music -- yet it calls for a double bass , an instrument generally regarded as symphonic .
Moreover , the piece is written in five movements , rather than the conventional four of most quintets , and this gives the opus a serenade or divertimento flavor .
The many and frequent performances of the Trout serve to emphasize the dual nature of its writing .
Some renditions are of symphonic dimensions , with the contrabass given free rein .
Other interpretations present the music as an essentially intimate creation .
In these readings , the double bass is either kept discreetly in the background , or it is dressed in clown's attire -- the musical equivalent of a bull in a china shop .
Recently I was struck anew by the divergent approaches , when in the course of one afternoon and evening I listened to no fewer than ten different performances .
The occasion for this marathon : Angel's long-awaited reissue in its `` Great Recordings Of The Century '' series of the Schnabel-Pro Arte version .
Let me say at the outset that the music sounded as sparkling on the last playing as it did on the first .
Whether considered alone or in relation to other editions , COLH 40 is a document of prime importance .
Artur Schnabel was one of the greatest Schubert-Beethoven-Mozart players of all time , and any commentary of his on this repertory is valuable .
But Schnabel was a great teacher in addition to being a great performer , and the fact that four of the ten versions I listened to are by Schnabel pupils ( Clifford Curzon , Frank Glazer , Adrian Aeschbacher , and Victor Babin ) also sheds light on the master's pedagogical skills .
Certain pianistic traits are common to all five Schnabelian renditions , most notably the `` Schnabel trill '' ( which differs from the conventional trill in that the two notes are struck simultaneously ) .
But the most impressive testimony to Schnabel's distinction as a teacher is reflected by the individuality which marks each student's approach as distinctly his own .
Schnabel's emphasis on structural clarity , his innate rhythmic vibrancy , and impetuous intensity all tend to stamp his reading as a symphonic one .
Yet no detail was too small to receive attention from this master , and as a result the playing here has humor , delicacy , and radiant humanity .
This is a serious-minded interpretation , but it is never strait-laced .
And although Schnabel's pianism bristles with excitement , it is meticulously faithful to Schubert's dynamic markings and phrase indications .
The piano performance on this Trout is one that really demands a search for superlatives .
About the Pro Arte's contribution I am less happy .
I , for one , rather regret that Schnabel didn't collaborate with the Budapest Quartet , whose rugged , athletic playing was a good deal closer to this pianist's interpretative outlook than the style of the Belgian group .
From a technical standpoint , the string playing is good , but the Pro Arte people fail to enter into the spirit of things here .
The violinist , in particular , is very indulgent with swoops and slides , and his tone is pinched and edgy .
The twenty-five-year-old recording offers rather faded string tone , but the balance between the instruments is good and the transfer is very quiet .
There is a break in continuity just before the fourth variation in the `` Forellen '' movement , and I suspect that this is due to imperfect splicing between sides of the original Aj .
Turning to the more modern versions , Curzon's ( London ) offers the most sophisticated keyboard work .
Every detail in his interpretation has been beautifully thought out , and of these I would especially cite the delicious laendler touch the pianist brings to the fifth variation ( an obvious indication that he is playing with Viennese musicians ) , and the gossamer shading throughout .
Some of Curzon's playing strikes me as finicky , however .
Why , for example , does he favor two tempos , rather than one , for the third movement ? ?
The assisting musicians from the Vienna Octet are somewhat lacking in expertise , but their contribution is rustic and appealing .
( Special compliments to the double bass playing of Johann Krumpp : his scrawny , tottering sound adds a delightful hilarity to the performance .
)
The Glazer-Fine Arts edition ( Concert-Disc ) is a model of lucidity and organization .
It is , moreover , a perfectly integrated ensemble effort .
But having lived with the disc for some time now , I find the performance less exciting than either Schnabel's or Fleisher's ( whose superb performance with the Budapest Quartet has still to be recorded ) and a good deal less filled with humor than Curzon's .
Aeschbacher's work is very much akin to Schnabel's , but the sound on his Decca disc is dated , and you will have a hard time locating a copy of it .
The Hephzibah Menuhin-Amadeus Quartet ( Angel ) and Victor Babin-Festival Quartet ( RCA Victor ) editions give us superlative string playing ( both in symphonic style ) crippled by unimaginative piano playing .
( Babin has acquired some of Schnabel's keyboard manner , but his playing is of limited insight .
) Badura-Skoda-Vienna Konzerthaus ( Westminster ) and Demus-Schubert Quartet ( Deutsche Grammophon ) are both warm-toned , pleasantly lyrical , but rather slack and tensionless .
Helmut Roloff , playing with a group of musicians from the Bayreuth Ensemble , gives a sturdy reading , in much the same vein as that of the last-mentioned pianists .
Telefunken has accorded him beautiful sound , and this bargain-priced disc ( it sells for $2.98 ) is worthy of consideration .
Returning once again to the Schnabel reissue , I am beguiled anew by the magnificence of this pianist's musical penetration .
Here is truly a `` Great Recording of the Century '' , and its greatness is by no means diminished by the fact that it is not quite perfect .
This recording surely belongs in everyone's collection .
Must records always sound like records ? ?
From the beginning of commercial recording , new discs purported to be indistinguishable from The Real Thing have regularly been put in circulation .
Seen in perspective , many of these releases have a genuine claim to be milestones .
Although lacking absolute verisimilitude , they supply the ear and the imagination with all necessary materials for re-creation of the original .
On the basis of what they give us we can know how the young Caruso sang , appreciate the distinctive qualities of Parsifal under Karl Muck's baton , or sense the type of ensemble Toscanini created in his years with the New York Philharmonic .
Since the concept of high fidelity became important some dozen years ago , the claims of technical improvements have multiplied tenfold .
In many cases the revolutionary production has offered no more than sensational effects : the first hearing was fascinating and the second disillusioning as the gap between sound and substance became clearer .
Other innovations with better claims to musical interest survived rehearing to acquire in time the status of classics .
If we return to them today , we have no difficulty spotting their weaknesses but we find them still pleasing .
Records sound like records because they provide a different sort of experience than live music .
This difference is made up of many factors .
Some of them are obvious , such as the fact that we associate recorded and live music with our responses and behavior in different types of environments and social settings .
( Music often sounds best to me when I can dress informally and sit in something more comfortable than a theatre seat .
) From the technical standpoint , records differ from live music to the degree that they fail to convey the true color , texture , complexity , range , intensity , pulse , and pitch of the original .
Any alteration of one of these factors is distortion , although we generally use that word only for effects so pronounced that they can be stated quantitatively on the basis of standard tests .
Yet it is the accumulation of distortion , the fitting together of fractional bits until the total reaches the threshold of our awareness , that makes records sound like records .
The sound may be good ; ;
but if you know The Real Thing , you know that what you are hearing is only a clever imitation .
Command's new Brahms Second is a major effort to make a record that sounds like a real orchestra rather than a copy of one .
Like the recent Scheherazade from London ( High Fidelity , Sept. 1961 ) , it is successful because emphasis has been placed on good musical and engineering practices rather than on creating sensational effects .
Because of this , only those with truly fine equipment will be able to appreciate the exact degree of the engineers' triumph .
The easiest way to describe this release is to say that it reproduces an interesting and effective Steinberg performance with minimal alteration of its musical values .
The engineering as such never obtrudes upon your consciousness .
The effect of the recording is very open and natural , with the frequency emphasis exactly what you would expect from a live performance .
This absence of peaky highs and beefed-up bass not only produces greater fidelity , but it eliminates listener fatigue .
A contributing factor is the perspective , the uniform aesthetic distance which is maintained .
The orchestra is far enough away from you that you miss the bow scrapes , valve clicks , and other noises incidental to playing .
Yet you feel the orchestra is near at hand , and the individual instruments have the same firm presence associated with listening from a good seat in an acoustically perfect hall .
Command has achieved the ideal amount of reverberation .
The music is always allowed the living space needed to attain its full sonority ; ;
yet the hall never intrudes as a quasi-performer .
The timbre remains that of the instruments unclouded by resonance .
All of this would be wasted , of course , if the performance lacked authority and musical distinction .
For me it has more of both elements than the majority of its competitors .
Steinberg seems to have gone directly back to the score , discounting tradition , and has built his performance on the intention to reproduce as faithfully as possible exactly what Brahms set down on paper .
Those accustomed to broader , more romantic statements of the symphony can be expected to react strongly when they hear this one .
Without losing the distinctive undertow of Brahmsian rhythm , the pacing is firm and the over-all performance has a tightly knit quality that makes for maximum cumulative effect .
The Presto Ma non assai of the first trio of the scherzo is taken literally and may shock you , as the real Allegro con Spirito of the finale is likely to bring you to your feet .
In the end , however , the thing about this performance that is most striking is the way it sings .
Steinberg obviously has concluded that it is the lyric element which must dominate in this score , and he manages at times to create the effect of the whole orchestra bursting into song .
The engineering provides exactly the support needed for such a result .
Too many records seem to reduce a work of symphonic complexity to a melody and its accompaniment .
The Command technique invites you to listen to the depth of the orchestration .
Your ear takes you into the ensemble , and you may well become aware of instrumental details which previously were apparent only in the score .
It is this sort of experience that makes the concept of high fidelity of real musical significance for the home music listener .
The first substantially complete stereo Giselle ( and the only one of its scope since Feyer's four-sided LP edition of 1958 for Angel ) , this set is , I'm afraid , likely to provide more horrid fascination than enjoyment .
The already faded pastel charms of the naive music itself vanish entirely in Fistoulari's melodramatic contrasts between ultravehement brute power and chilly , if suave , sentimentality .
And in its engineers' frantic attempts to achieve maximum dynamic impact and earsplitting brilliance , the recording sounds as though it had been `` doctored for super-high fidelity '' .
The home listener is overpowered , all right , but the experience is a far from pleasant one .
As with the penultimate Giselle release ( Wolff's abridgment for RCA Victor ) I find the cleaner , less razor-edged monophonic version , for all its lack of big-stage spaciousness , the more aurally tolerable -- but this may be the result of processing defects in my SD copies .
At the Westminster KC Dog Show in Madison Square Garden , New York on the second day , the Finals of the Junior Class brought out the most competitive competition in the history of this Class .
The Class had entries from as far west as Wisconsin and as far south as Kentucky .
This year several entries from Canada were entered which made the Junior Class International .
Forty-six of the 53 Juniors who mailed in entries were present .
It was interesting to note that many of these Juniors were showing dogs in various other classes at the show prior to the Finals of the Junior Class .
As has been the custom for the past several years , John Cross , Jr. , Bench Show Chmn. of Westminster , arranged for the Juniors' meeting before the Class , and invited two speakers from the dog world to address them .
Over 60 Juniors , parents and guests attended .
Mrs. William H. Long , Jr. speaks
After the Juniors were welcomed and congratulated for qualifying for the Finals of the Junior Class , Mrs. William H. Long , Jr. was introduced as the first speaker .
In her opening remarks Mrs. Long also welcomed the Juniors and stated , `` There isn't any other show quite like Westminster .
I know because this is my 37th year with hardly a break .
Mrs. Long still feels the same unique spirit of Westminster which she stated the present Juniors will experience today but probably will not appreciate in full for a number of years .
Twenty years ago her daughter Betsey Long , then 13 years of age , won the Grand Challenge Trophy , Children's Handling Class ( as they were called then ) at Westminster .
No sooner had Betsey come out of the ring than Mrs. Long walked into the Working Competition with Ch. Cadet or Noranda , another home-bred product , and won ! !
Speaking from long years of experience , Mrs. Long advised the Juniors : `` When showing dogs ceases to be fun and excitement , stop ! !
Dogs have a way of sensing our feelings ! !
When you and your dog step into the Junior ring , it should be just what the dog wants to do as much as what you want him to do .
If you walk into the ring because it is fun to show your dog , he will feel it and give you a good performance ! !
He knows your signals , what is expected of him and the way the Class is conducted , right up through the flash-bulbs of the photographers '' .
Right attitude essential ! !
`` Take away your attitude '' , said Mrs. Long , `` and what have you left ? ?
Either a nervous dog because you are livid with rage -- a sure sign that you are taking things too seriously and had better stop ! !
Or a bored dog because you are more interested in something else -- maybe the way you look , or the date you have after the Class , or you are just doing this to please the parents .
`` The reason you are in the ring today is to show your ability to present to any judge the most attractive picture of your dog that the skillful use of your aids can produce .
Aids sounds more like a Pony Club , or horsemanship classes -- riding a horse and showing a dog are very similar ! !
`` Your aids are your attitude , which comes through your voice , your hands and legs -- voice to encourage , discourage or whatever the need may be ; ;
hands to guide or restrain ; ;
legs to produce motion and rate of speed .
Without right attitude the other aids just do not work right '' .
Mrs. Long wished all the Juniors luck in the Class and stated , `` Have fun ! !
And may you all continue to show at Westminster in the years to come '' ! !
Harvey Barcus , second speaker
The second speaker was Harvey Barcus , President of the Dog Writers Ass'n of America .
Mr. Barcus spoke on the subject of scholarships for Juniors -- with which he is very familiar .
Last year a boy he knows and helped in Journalism won the Thoroughbred Racing Ass'n Scholarship which is worth $10,000 .
He gave a resume of the steps taken in order for the boy he sponsored to win the scholarship .
`` Junior Showmanship is an extremely worthy project and should be earnestly encouraged '' ! !
Is one of Mr. Barcus' strong beliefs .
He feels very forcibly that the American Kennel Club should take a more active part in encouraging the Junior Division ! !
In closing , Mr. Barcus also wished all the Juniors luck in their Class .
Westminster Show Notes
Instead of 3 a.m. in the past , the Juniors Class at Westminster was held at 4:45 p.m. .
This gave the Juniors the use of the entire ring at the show -- a great advantage to them ! !
Before the Juniors entered the ring the Steward announced that after all Juniors had moved their dogs around the ring and set them up , they could relax with their dogs .
From there on , each Junior was going to be judged individually .
This thoughtful gesture was well received by the Juniors as the Class had an entry of 46 Juniors and it took approximately one hour , 45 minutes to judge the Class .
Anne Hone Rogers judges 28th finals
This year Anne Hone Rogers , outstanding Handler , judged the Class .
This is the third time in 28 years of Junior Showmanship at Westminster that a lady Handler has judged the Class .
As the Juniors entered the ring , Mr. Spring , the announcer , stated over the public-address system that this was the 28th year that Westminster has held the Finals of the Junior Competition .
Juniors competed last year at American Kennel Club and Canadian Kennel Club , recognized shows to be eligible to compete in this Class -- the Finals for the year .
A Junior who won two or more wins in the Open Class was eligible .
( The purpose of the Junior Showmanship Competition is to teach and encourage Juniors to become good sportsmen .
Many adults showing at Westminster today are products of this Class .
)
It seemed an almost impossible job for Miss Rogers to select 4 winners from the 46 Juniors entered .
A large number of these Juniors have 7 and 8 wins to their credit and are seasoned campaigners .
After the judge moved all the dogs individually , she selected several from the group and placed them in the center of the ring .
She then went over them thoroughly giving each a strenuous test in showmanship .
International Champion of the year
Betty Lou Ham , age 16 , Holyoke , Mass. , showing an Irish Setter , was chosen as International Champion of the year .
She was awarded the Professional Handlers' Ass'ns' Leonard Brumby , Sr. Memorial Trophy ( named for the founder-originator of the Junior Classes .
)
Betty is 16 years of age and had several wins to her credit last year .
In addition to showing an Irish Setter throughout the year , she also scored with an Afghan .
Other winners
Sydney Le Blanc , age 15 , Staten Island , N.Y. , showing a Doberman Pinscher , was 2nd .
Susan Hackmann , age 14 , from Baltimore , Md. , showing a Dachshund , was 3rd .
Last year Susan also placed 3rd in the Finals at Westminster .
From the records we keep -- Susan is the only Junior who has placed in the Junior Classes in both United States and Canada .
Karen Marcmann , age 16 , Trapp , Penna. , showing a Keeshond was 4th .
Most Juniors who were entered in the Finals are seasoned campaigners and not only show and win in Junior Classes but score in the Breed Classes as well .
Entries increasing -- requirements raised
In 1960 , there were 7287 entries in the Junior Classes .
Each year these shows have increased in entries .
Next year 1962 , at Westminster , the Bench Show Committee has raised the requirements so that a junior must win 3 or more Junior Classes in the open division only to qualify for Westminster .
Percy Roberts , a leading judge will not be at the International Show this year for the Junior Judging Contest as he has been invited to judge in Australia in March .
Judging class for intermediates proposed
It has been suggested many times that a Class be set up for the Juniors who are overage and cannot enter the Junior Classes .
For some time this writer has been suggesting a Junior Judging Class for Intermediates over 16 and under 20 years of age who are ineligible to compete in the Junior Class .
Such a Class was tried out successfully at the Westchester KC Show recently .
Not only were the contestants pleased with the Class , but it aroused the interest of all in attendance that day .
The Intermediates in the Class with the Judge were asked to pick 4 winners and give their reasons but their decisions did not affect the choice of the Judge .
We suggested this Class in the horse world and it was accepted immediately and included in the programs of horse shows .
At the recent horse show convention in New York it was stated that this Intermediate Judging Class is meeting with great success and will be a great help to future judges in the horse world .
This Class can be just as successful in the dog world if it is given a chance .
Last year Robert Harris , a leading Junior Handler entered the Dog Judging Contest ( Junior ) at the International KC of Chicago show and had the highest score in judging of any Junior since the Class' inception .
Juniors who attend this Chicago show should make a point to enter this Class as it would be of great help to them .
More volunteer handlers needed to judge
Superintendents at dog shows state it is becoming more difficult to obtain a licensed Handler to Judge Junior Showmanship Competition .
The founder of the Junior Showmanship Competition the late Leonard Brumby , Sr. ( for whom the trophy is named after at Westminster ) was an outstanding Handler and believed a Junior should have an opportunity to exhibit in a dog show starting with the Junior Showmanship Division .
Some years ago this Class was judged by celebrities who knew nothing of what was required of a Junior's ability to show a dog .
To overcome this unfair judging , the A.K.C. requires that a licensed Handler be present to judge the Class .
If the superintendents do not receive more cooperation from Handlers , it has been suggested that licensed Judges also be qualified to judge this Class .
By recognizing and helping Juniors get interested in the dog world , all will be helping to create future dog owners .
Other awards for Juniors
The Airedale Terrier Club of America and the Kerry Blue Terrier Club of America have under consideration donating trophies to the boys or girls who win with their breeds in Junior Showmanship Competition at any Show .
The Kansas City and the Topeka KCs are arranging that Juniors who win at their shows will be qualified to win points for Westminster .
The Rio Grande KC is also considering having their Junior Classes set up so that Juniors can qualify with points for Westminster .
The American Pointer Club is still continuing to donate trophies to Juniors who win at Junior Showmanship Classes with Pointers .
Traveling through the South -- over 16,000 miles -- with two Great Danes , an Afghan , and a Persian kitten , we've worked up a regular routine for acceptance at motels .
My husband enters the motel office , signs up for a room , and then solemnly asks the proprieter if he accepts pets .
`` Puppies '' ? ?
Comes the suspicious question .
`` No '' , he replies , `` full grown , adult show dogs , housebroken , and obedience-trained '' .
We've never been refused ! !
Once settled , we're careful to walk the dogs in an out of the way spot , keep them under control in the room , and feed and bench them where they can't do any harm to the furnishings or the furniture .
In the morning we leave the room looking as neat as a pin ! !
Many a motel owner -- when we've stopped there again -- has remembered us and has said he preferred our dogs to most children .
So many times I have wondered why veterinarians do not wipe the table clean before each new canine patient is placed on it for examination .
Is it that they don't care ? ?
Are they indifferent to the fact that the dog can easily pick up germs from the preceding patient ? ?
At one time , to most Americans , unless they were fortunate enough to live near a body of navigable water , boats were considered the sole concern of fishermen , rich people , and the United States Navy .
Today the recreational boating scene is awash with heartening statistics which prove the enormous growth of that sport .
There are more than 8,000,000 recreational boats in use in the United States with almost 10,000,000 the prediction for within the next decade .
About 40,000,000 people participated in boating in 1960 .
Boating has become a giant whose strides cover the entire nation from sea to shining sea .
Boats are operated in every state in the Union , with the heaviest concentrations along both coasts and in the Middle West .
The spectacular upsurge in pleasure boating is markedly evident , expectedly , in the areas where boats have always been found : the natural lakes , rivers , and along the nation's coastline .
But during the last several years boats were launched in areas where , a short time ago , the only water to be found was in wells and watering troughs for livestock .
Developed as a result of the multi-purpose resources control program of the government , vast , man-made bodies of water represent a kind of glorious fringe benefit , providing boating and fishing havens all over the country .
No matter how determined or wealthy boating lovers of the Southwest had been , for example , they could never have created anything approaching the fifty square-mile Lake Texoma , located between Texas and Oklahoma , which resulted when the Corp of Army Engineers dammed the Red River .
In 1959 , according to the Engineers , Lake Texoma was only one of thirty-two artificial lakes and reservoirs which were used for recreation by over 1,000,000 persons .
Where an opportunity to enjoy boating has not been created by bringing bodies of water to the people , means have been found to take the people and their boats to the water .
Providing these means are about ninety companies which manufactured the estimated 1,800,000 boat trailers now in use .
It is a simple task to haul a boat fifty or one hundred miles to a lake or reservoir on the new , light , strong , easy-to-operate trailers which are built to accommodate almost any kind of small boat and retail from $100 to $2,000 .
The sight of sleek inboards , outboards , and sailboats being wheeled smartly along highways many miles from any water is commonplace .
Boatmen lucky enough to have facilities for year-'round anchorage for their craft , will recall the tedious procedure of loading their gear into the car , driving to the water , and making trip after trip to transfer the gear to the boat .
Today , the boat , on its trailer , is brought to the gear and loaded at the door .
Arriving at the waterside , the boat is launched , the family taken aboard and , that easily , another day afloat is begun .
And trailers for boats are not what they started out to be ten years ago .
This year , Americans will discover previously unheard of refinements in trailers that will be exhibited in about one hundred of our nation's national , regional and local boat shows .
The boats of America's trailer sailors in 1961 will be coddled on clouds as they are hauled to new horizons .
The variety of craft on the country's waters today is overwhelming .
They range from an eight-foot pram , which you can build yourself for less than $50 , to auxiliary sailboats which can cost over $100,000 .
Boat prices vary according to the buyer's desires or needs .
In this respect , boats can be compared with houses .
There is no limit to what you can spend , yet it is easily possible to keep within a set budget .
There is no question as to just what is available .
You name it , our industry is producing it , and it probably is made in different models .
There are canoes ideal for fishing in protected waters or for camping trips .
There are houseboats which are literally homes afloat , accommodating whole families in comfort and convenience .
You can cross an ocean in a fully equipped craft , sail , power , or both , or laze away a fine day in a small dinghy on a local pond .
You may have your boat of wood , canvas , plywood , plastic , or metal .
You may order utility models , inboard or outboard , with or without toilets , galleys , and bunks .
You may dress it up with any number of accessories or keep it as simple as you choose .
Designers and manufacturers have produced models for purchasers who run the gamut from a nautical version of the elderly Pasadena lady who never drove more than five miles an hour on her once-a-month ride around the block , to the sportiest boatman who insists on all the dash , color , flair and speed possible to encompass in a single boat .
You pay your money and you take your choice .
American technology in engine and hull design is largely responsible for the plentiful interest in American boating .
I wonder if anyone ever bothered to make the point that when it comes to boats and their motors , Americans excel over any country in the world in the long run .
Russia , whose technology is not quite primitive , is still in the dark ages when it comes to improving the outboard motor , for instance .
Now here is truly a marvel .
The outboard engine of today has a phenomenal range of one to 80 horsepower , unheard of a few years ago for a two cycle engine in quantity production .
These engines can be removed from a boat with relative ease , wherein lies their greatest advantage .
Their cost is not beyond the hopes of the American pocketbook , the range being about $150 to $1,000 , depending on size .
Great thought has been given to making life easier for the growing boating population of the country ; ;
and to making the owning of a boat simpler .
There was a time when , if a man wanted to purchase a boat , it was necessary for him to be able to produce a sizeable amount of cash before he could touch the tiller or wheel .
Having a boat financed through a local bank is done much the same way as an automobile loan is extended .
Marine dealers and even some manufacturers who sell direct in non-dealer areas cooperate in enabling you to launch now and pay later .
Terms range from one to five years and the interest rates and down payments run about the same as for automobiles .
Of course , individual financing arrangements depend a good deal on the purchaser's earning power , credit rating and local bank policy .
Outboard motors , insurance , and boat repairs may also be financed in the same way as boats .
Terms and rates of interest for motors generally follow those for home appliances .
When the automobile was in its embryonic stage , such roads as existed were pretty much open roads with the tacit understanding that horses should not be unduly terrified being about the only rule governing where , when and how fast a car could go .
When air travel was in its infancy , the sky was considered big enough and high enough for all .
Man had enough to worry about managing to get up there and stay without being burdened with rules once aloft .
It was much the same with pleasure boating at first .
Come one , come all , the water's fine ! !
As the ungoverned days of the automobile and the airplane are long since relegated to the past , so is the carefree attitude toward what a boatman may and may not do ; ;
must and should do .
However , there is a minimum of legislative restriction on boating .
Laws on boating vary according to the state in which the craft is to be used and according to its horsepower .
What may be acceptable in one state may be strictly prohibited across the boundary line .
The main requirement is to be sure the boat is numbered according to the regulations of the state in which the boat will be principally used .
If your state has no provisions for the numbering of pleasure boats , you must apply for a number from the U.S. Coast Guard for any kind of boat with mechanical propulsion rated at more than 10 horsepower before it can be used on Federal waterways .
State numbering laws differ from each other in many ways .
Fees are not the same and some states do not require certain craft , such as sailboats with no power , to be registered at all .
Many states have laws regulating the use of boat trailers and some have restrictions regarding the age of motor boat operators .
Generally , states reserve for communities the right to have local ordinances regulating speed and other activities .
It is always wise to consult your marine dealer , local yacht or boat club secretary , or local law enforcement officers if you are not positive what the regulations are .
Ignorance of the law is no better excuse on the water than it is on land ; ;
lack of ability and common sense can lead to just as much tragedy .
Hand in hand with the legislative program is the industry's self originated and directed safety program .
Foreseeing the possible threats to safety with the rapid growth of the sport , the industry has been supporting an intense , coordinated educational program with great success since 1947 .
A primary factor in the success of the safety program has been the enthusiastic cooperation of the individual manufacturers .
The industry has been its own watch dog .
With U.S. Coast Guard cooperation , the American Boat and Yacht Council was formed to develop recommended practices and standards for boats and their equipment with reference to safety .
Industry interest in safety goes even farther .
In 1959 , the Yacht Safety Bureau was reorganized by the National Association of Engine and Boat Manufacturers and a group of insurance underwriters to provide a testing laboratory and labeling service for boats and their equipment .
A new waterfront site for the bureau is now being built at Atlantic City , New Jersey , to provide the most modern marine testing facilities as a further tool to keep the sport safe .
In addition to these activities , the NAEBM , with headquarters at 420 Lexington Avenue , New York City , as well as other associations and individual manufacturers , provide and distribute films , booklets , and public services in regard to proper boat handling and safety afloat .
It is important to note the work of the United States Power Squadrons and the U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary .
Each of these fine groups gives free boating classes in seamanship piloting and small boat handling .
These are not governmentally subsidized organizations .
This year , over 100,000 persons will receive this free instruction .
As America on wheels was responsible for an industry of motor courts , motels , and drive-in establishments where you can dine , see a movie , shop , or make a bank deposit , the ever-increasing number of boating enthusiasts have sparked industries designed especially to accommodate them .
Instead of motels , for the boatman there are marinas .
The word marina was coined by NAEBM originally to describe a waterfront facility where recreational boats could find protection and basic needs to lay over in relative comfort .
Currently , marina is used to indicate a municipal or commercially operated facility where a pleasure boat may dock and find some or all of the following available : gasoline , fresh water , electricity , telephone service , ice , repair facilities , restaurants , sleeping accommodations , a general store , and a grocery store .
Yachtel , a relatively new word , indicates a waterfront type of hotel where a yachtsman may dock and find overnight accommodations on the premises as well as other services .
Boatel has a similar meaning to yachtel .
It indicates the same thing but it is meant to pertain more specifically to establishments designed to cater to smaller type boats such as outboards .
Regardless of nomenclature , yachtels and boatels are marinas .
Boatyards which also provide some of the above facilities may rightfully be called marinas .
A recent survey disclosed there are about 4,000 commercially and municipally operated marinas and boatyards in the United States , the majority of which are equipped to handle outboard boats .
The design of a mechanical interlocking frame is much like a mechanical puzzle , but once understood , the principles can be applied to any track and signal arrangement .
In the frame are two sets of bars which interact with each other to prevent the operator from making dangerous moves .
The main set of bars are the `` tappets '' and one tappet is connected to each lever .
If the lever is pulled to clear a signal or move a switch , the tappet moves a short distance lengthwise at the same time .
Close behind the plane of the tappets are the locking bars .
These can also move a short distance but at right angles to the tappets .
The number of locking bars required depends on how many false moves must be prevented .
In the sides of the tappets are notches with sloping sides , and connection between the tappets and locking bars consist of cams called `` dogs '' .
Two or more dogs are mounted on each locking bar .
These slide into and out of the notches in the tappets as the tappets are moved , locking and unlocking them .
Here's how the scheme works : Suppose the operator pulls the lever to clear a particular signal .
This also pulls the tappet connected to the particular lever and forces any dogs seated in the notches to the side , thus moving one or more locking bars .
The dogs on the other ends of these locking bars are thus forced into notches in other tappets .
By this scheme , pulling one signal to clear locks all the other switch and signal levers in safe positions until the first signal is again restored to normal .
Interlocking signals are normally at stop or `` red '' position , and a lever must be pulled to `` clear '' the signal .
This is not necessarily to green , however , for in some situations only a yellow indication is given to a train to let it into the `` plant '' .
There are other basic rules .
A turnout may have two levers , one to actually move the switch points , the other to lock the points .
A signal cannot be cleared until all the related turnouts are properly thrown and locked .
Such locks are nearly always used where the switch points `` face '' oncoming traffic .
The lock insures that the points are thrown all the way with no chance that a wheel flange will snag on a partly thrown point .
If the points aren't thrown all the way , the Turnout cannot be locked , and in turn , the signal cannot be cleared .
Generally , these locks on turnouts are called `` facing point locks '' .
Figs. 1-6 show typical arrangements of track and signals .
Each diagram is accompanied by a `` dog chart '' , a list of the levers that show which other levers any particular lever will lock if pulled .
The lines connecting the wedge-shaped dogs represent the locking bars at right angles to the tappet bars .
By studying the track-signal diagrams you'll note several other details .
Derails -- mechanical track devices that actually guide the wheels off the rails if a train passes a `` stop '' signal -- are used in many instances .
`` Home '' signals have two blades .
The blacked-in blades indicate a fixed aspect -- the blade does not move .
As an engineer approaches the plant the position of the home signal is seen in advance when he passes the `` distant '' signal located beyond the limits of the interlocking plant .
In some low-speed situations , the distant signal is fixed at caution .
In other instances where there is no automatic block signaling , the distant has only green and yellow aspects .
So much for the prototype .
The interlocking frame we built at the model railroader workshop and then installed on Paul Larson's railroad follows the Fig. 1 scheme and is shown beginning in Fig. 7 , page 65 , and in the photos .
Here's how it can be built .
Frame
The sizes of pieces needed for the interlocking frame are shown in the notes within Fig. 7 , most of the bars being 1/8'' '' brass in 1/4'' '' and 1/2'' '' widths .
You may change the dimensions to suit a frame for more or fewer levers and locks as you wish .
Our instructions assume you are building this particular frame , which is for a junction .
When cutting the pieces , dress the ends smooth , and square with a smooth file or sanding disk .
Start with the right-hand piece `` B '' , Af , soldering it to the lower piece `` A '' of the same material but 12'' '' long .
Let exactly 1'' '' of `` A '' extend beyond `` B '' and use a square to check your angle to exactly 90 degrees .
Now lay 12 pieces of Af cut 5-3/4'' '' long side by side but separated by 12 pieces of the same material 1/2'' '' sq. .
This gives you the spacing for locating the left-hand piece `` B '' .
Compress the assembly when you make the mark to show the location for `` B '' .
Solder this second `` B '' to `` A '' at right angles .
There should be 10'' '' between the two parallel members and each should be 1'' '' from an end of the long piece .
Cap this assembly ( with spacing bars in place ) with a Af bar .
Tack-solder all the 1/2'' '' sq. pieces to the 10'' '' and 12'' '' members .
These will be drilled and tapped later on .
Now cut five Af locking bar spacers ( which run horizontally ) .
Position these using six intermediate temporary Af spacers and locate the upper 12'' '' bar `` A '' .
Solder it and the five locking bar spacers to the frame .
Now place 12 pieces 1/2'' '' sq. on this edge as we did before and space them with the 5-3/4'' '' long `` tappets '' , as they are called .
Cap with a Af bar and tack-solder in place .
Cap the locking bar spacers with two Af directly under the first two `` B '' pieces .
Remove all the loose spacing bars .
Mark and center-punch all the holes required for screws to hold this assembly together .
See Fig. 7 .
Placement of these holes is not critical , but they should be located so that the centers are about 1/8'' '' from any edge .
Drill all No. 50 and counter-drill all except the `` A '' pieces size 43 .
Tap the `` A '' pieces 2-56 .
Now unsolder and disassemble the frame except for the two 12'' '' and the first two 3-3/4'' '' bars ( `` A '' and `` B '' pieces ) , which are soldered together .
Either lay the components aside in proper order or code them with numbers and letters so they may be replaced in their proper positions .
Dress all surfaces with a file , cleaning off all solder and drilling burrs .
Drill 20 No. 47 holes in the upper piece `` A '' as shown in Fig. 7 .
Tap these 3-48 for mounting the electrical contact later on .
Note , 6 and 8 lock levers don't require holes for contacts .
Now reassemble the frame , using Af roundhead steel screws and nuts .
Put the 12 tappets and some Af locking bar spacers in the frame to help align all the components before you tighten the screws .
Be sure the tappets are not pinched by a twisted 1/2'' '' sq. spacer .
As an anchor for the spring lock , insert a Af bar in the lower left corner of the frame as shown in Fig. 7 .
Drill a No. 43 hole through the pieces and secure with a 2-56 nut and screw .
Drill two No. 50 holes , one in the insert and one in the locking bar spacer directly above it , and tap 2-56 .
Number all the tappet bars before removing them so they can be replaced in the same slots .
Remove all other loose pieces and file the edges of the basic frame smooth .
Cut five pieces of Af brass bar stock 3-3/4'' '' long .
These are supporting members for the short locking bars .
Locate their positions in Fig. 7 and drill No. 43 to match the corresponding holes in the frame .
Cut off excess screw lengths and file flush with either frame or nut .
Drill four No. 19 and four No. 28 holes in the 12'' '' long `` A '' pieces .
Locate the position from Fig. 7 .
Tappets and locking bars
Draw-file No. 1 tappet to a smooth fit in its respective slot and square the ends .
Break the end corners with a slight 45 degree chamfer .
Drill a No. 50 hole 1-1/4'' '' from one end and tap 2-56 .
( See Fig. 7 .
) Put a 2-56 roundhead screw into the hole , cut off the excess threads and file flush with the underside of the bar .
To find the other stop screw position , insert the tappet into the frame and hold the screw head tight against the frame edge .
Scribe a line across the bar on the other end of the tappet , 1/4'' '' plus half the diameter of the 2-56 screw head ( about 5/64'' '' ) away from the frame edge .
Total distance is about 21/64'' '' .
Tend to make this dimension slightly undersize so you can file the screw head to get exactly 1/4'' '' tappet movement .
Drill a No. 50 hole , tap 2-56 and insert a roundhead 2-56 screw as you did on the first end .
Drill a No. 47 hole crosswise through the tappet at the position shown in Figs. 7 and 8 .
Repeat these drill and tap operations for each of the tappet bars .
To each tappet except 6 and 8 , solder a Af piece of brass and file to the tapered shape shown in Figs. 6 and 8 .
These will serve as lifting pads for the electrical contacts .
Fitting the locking bars and making the locking pieces is a rather tedious job since stop screws , tappets and locking bars must be removed and replaced many times .
As the work progresses the frame and moving parts become a sort of Chinese puzzle where several pieces must be removed before the part you are working on is accessible .
A little extra work here will pay off with a smooth , snug-fitting machine when you are finished .
Each completed locking bar should remain in place as the work progresses to insure snug fitting .
The order of fitting is not too important .
However , we started with the first row of bars and worked our way back .
Since the same method of shaping and fitting the dogs and notches is used throughout , we will only describe the construction of one locking bar .
Figs. 7 and 8 give all pertinent dimensions .
All the bars are cut from Af brass .
The lengths of each piece are listed at the bottom of Fig. 7 .
Bar `` C '' is 2-3/4'' '' long .
Draw-file the edges , square up the ends and put a slight chamfer on the edges so they will not snag in the frame .
Fig. 8 gives the dimensions for locating the dog-pin holes .
Center-punch and drill the No. 31 hole 7/16'' '' from one end of the bar .
Chuck a length of 1/8'' '' dia. drill rod into a drill press or some similar turning device and while it is rotating file the end square and then file a slight taper 1/8'' '' long .
Cut the piece about 9/32'' '' or 5/16'' '' long and drive it into the No. 31 hole drilled in the locking bar .
File the bottom edge flush with the bar and the top 1/8'' '' above the bar .
This dog will engage a notch to be cut in tappet 3 .
Place the locking bar in proper position and insert tappet 3 .
Scribe a line through the center of the pin and across the face of tappet 3 , parallel to piece `` A '' .
See the drawings for the shape of the notch .
Scribe V-shaped lines on the bar and rough out with either a hack saw or a cutting disk in a hand power tool .
We used the latter equipped with a carborundum disk about
'' thick and 1'' '' dia. fitted on a 1/8'' '' dia. mandrel .
Such disks are very handy for cutting and shaping small parts .
File to a smooth finish .
A Barrette Swiss pattern file is handy since its triangular shape with only one cutting face will allow you to work a surface without marring an adjoining one .
Endeavor to get the notches as much alike as possible .
The notch should have a smooth finish so that the steel dog will slide easily over it .
Assemble the parts in the frame and test the sliding action of the mating pieces .
All matching surfaces should be checked frequently and mated on a cut and fit basis .
Chuck a 2'' '' or 3'' '' piece of 1/8'' '' dia. drill rod in a drill press or electric hand tool .
Fashion a sharp scribing point about 3/64'' '' long on one end , using Swiss pattern files .
This tool can also be made with a lathe .
Scientists say that the world and everything in it are based on mathematics .
Without math the men who are continually seeking the causes of and the reasons for the many things that make the world go 'round would not have any means of analyzing , standardizing , and communicating the things they discover and learn .
Math and the formulas that allow it to be applied to different problems are , therefore , essential to any scientific endeavor .
Hot rodding is a science .
It's not a science as involved as determining what makes the earth rotate on its axis or building a rocket or putting a satellite into orbit but it is , nevertheless , a science .
But because science is based on mathematics doesn't mean that a hot rodder must necessarily be a mathematician .
A guy can be an active and successful hot rodder for years without becoming even remotely involved with mathematical problems ; ;
however , he will have a clearer understanding of what he is doing and the chances are he will be more successful if he understands the few formulas that apply to rodding .
A mathematical formula is nothing more than a pattern for solving a specific problem .
It places the various factors involved in the problem in their correct order in relation to each other so that the influence of factors on each other can be computed .
The first step in using a formula is to insert the numerical values of the factors involved in their correct positions in the formula .
This changes the formula to an `` equation '' .
The equation is used for the mathematical process of solving the problem .
Equations for rodding formulas are not complicated .
They involve only simple mathematics that are taught in grammar school arithmetic classes .
However , it is essential that the various mathematical symbols used in the equations be understood so that the mathematical processes can be done properly and in their correct order .
They indicate simple division , multiplication , subtraction , and addition .
The symbol for division is a straight line that separates two numbers placed one above the other .
The lower number is always divided into the upper number : Af
.
The symbol for multiplication is `` **b '' .
It is used to separate two or more numbers in a row .
For example : Af .
Numbers to be multiplied together may be multiplied in any order .
The result will be the same regardless of the order used .
The symbol for subtraction is the standard minus sign .
This is nothing more than a dash .
It separates two or more numbers .
The number on the right of the symbol is always subtracted from the number on the left of the symbol .
For example : Af .
When more than two figures are separated by subtraction symbols the subtraction must be carried out from the left to right if the result is to be correct .
For example , for the problem Af , 10 from 25 equals 15 , then 6 from 15 equals 9 .
Addition is indicated by the + symbol .
The symbol is used to separate two or more numbers .
For example : Af .
Numbers separated by addition symbols may be placed in any order .
When solving an equation that involves division as well as other steps , do all the division steps first to reduce those parts of the equation to their numerical value .
Multiplication , subtraction , and addition can then be accomplished as they appear in the equation by starting at the left end of the equation and working toward the right .
Completing the division first also includes those division parts that require multiplication , subtraction , or addition steps : Af .
This would be reduced by multiplying 8 times 6 and then dividing the product by 12 .
This part of the equation would then become 4 .
For use in formulas , fractions should be converted to their decimal equivalents .
The easiest way to do this is with a conversion chart .
Charts for this purpose are available from many sources .
They are included in all types of mathematical handbooks and they are stamped on some types of precision measuring instruments .
The various mathematical processes can be simplified by carrying the results to only two or three decimal places .
Shortening the results in this manner will not have any detrimental effect on the accuracy of the final result .
Some formulas contain `` constants '' .
A constant is a number that remains the same regardless of the other numbers used in the formula and the resultant equation .
It is a number without which the equation cannot be solved correctly .
Rodding formulas apply to many phases of the sport .
The answers they give can often pave the way to performance increases and , quite often , are necessary for completing entry blanks for different events .
When it is needed , one formula is as important as another .
However , some formulas are used more than others .
We'll take them in the general order of their popularity .
Engine displacement
A rodder should be able to compute the displacement of his engine .
Displacement is sometimes referred to as `` swept volume '' .
Most entry blanks for competitive events require engine displacement information because of class restrictions .
It is good to be able to compute displacement so that changes in it resulting from boring and stroking can be computed .
Factors involved in the displacement formula are the bore diameter of the engine's cylinders , the length of the piston stroke , the number of cylinders in the engine , and a constant .
The constant is , which is one-quarter of 3.1416 , another constant known as `` pi '' .
Pi is used in formulas concerned with the dimensions of circles .
Actually , the engine displacement formula is the standard formula for computing the volume of a cylinder of any type with an added factor that represents the number of cylinders in the engine .
The cross-sectional area of the cylinders is determined and then the volume of the individual cylinders is computed by multiplying the area by the stroke length , which is the equivalent of the length of the cylinders .
Multiplying the result by the number of cylinders in the engine gives the engine's total displacement .
The formula is : Af .
Dimensions in inches , and fractions of inches will give the displacement in cubic inches .
Dimensions in centimeters and fractions of centimeters will give the displacement in cubic centimeters ( cc. ) .
One inch equals 2.54 centimeters : one cubic inch equals 16.38 cubic centimeters .
For example , let's consider a standard 283 cubic inch Chevy Aj .
These engines have a cylinder diameter of 3-7/8 inches and a stroke length of 3 inches .
The formula , with the fractions converted to decimals , becomes Af .
To arrive at the answer , multiply the numbers together by starting at the left of the group and working to the right .
The different steps will look like this : Af
.
Compression ratio
A cylinder's compression ratio is computed by comparing the cylinder's volume , or its displacement , with the total volume of the cylinder and its combustion chamber .
Cylinder volume can be determined mathematically but combustion chamber volume must be measured with a liquid .
Cylinder volume is determined in exactly the same manner as for the displacement formula : Af .
To measure the volume of one of the combustion chambers in the cylinder head , install the valves and spark plug in the chamber and support the head so that its gasket surface is level .
Then pour water or light oil from a graduated beaker into the chamber to fill the chamber to its gasket surface .
Do not overfill the chamber .
This is possible with water and other liquids that have a high surface tension .
Such liquids will rise to a considerable height above the surface around the chamber before they will flow out of the chamber .
The amount of liquid poured into the chamber is determined by subtracting the quantity still in the beaker when the chamber is full from the original quantity .
Most beakers are graduated in cubic centimeters ( cc. ) , making it necessary to convert the result to cubic inches .
However , the displacement of the cylinder can be converted to cubic centimeters .
The compression ratio arrived at with the formula will be the same regardless of whether cubic inches or cubic centimeters are used .
The only precaution is that all volumes used in the formula be quoted in the same terms .
The volume of the cylinder opening in the head gasket must be computed by multiplying its area in square inches by the gasket's thickness in thousandths of an inch .
Sometimes it is necessary to roughly calculate the square inch area of the opening but the calculation can usually be made with sufficient accuracy that it won't affect the final computation .
The volume of the opening is added to the combustion chamber volume .
Another thing that must be taken into consideration is the volume of the area between the top of the piston and the top of the cylinder block when the piston is in top dead center position .
Compute this volume by measuring the distance from the top of the block to the piston head as accurately as possible with a depth micrometer or some other precision measuring device and then multiply the area of the cylinder by the depth .
The formula for this step is : Af .
This volume is added to the total volume of the combustion chamber and head gasket opening .
The total of these three volumes is the `` final combustion chamber volume '' .
After the factors just described have been computed , they are applied to the following formula : Af
.
For an example let's dream up an engine that has a final combustion chamber volume of 5 cubic inches and a cylinder volume of 45 cubic inches .
Applying these figures to the formula we get the equation : Af .
The compression ratio is 10 to 1 .
This method of computing compression ratio cannot be used accurately for engines that have pistons with either domed or irregularly shaped heads .
Any irregularity on the piston heads will make it impossible , with normal means , to determine the final combustion chamber volume because the volume displaced by the piston heads cannot be readily computed .
The only way to determine the final combustion chamber volume when such pistons are used is by measuring it with liquid while the cylinder head is bolted to the cylinder block and the piston is in top dead center position .
Gear ratio -- speed relationships
There are four versions of the formula that involves the relationships of car speed , engine speed , rear axle gear ratio , and rear tire size .
By using the appropriate version any one of these factors can be determined for any combination of the other three .
To simplify the formulas a representative symbol is substituted for each of the factors .
These are
MPH for Car speed
, for Engine crankshaft speed
, for Rear axle gear ratio
, for Tire size
.
Tire size can be determined in several ways but the one that is the easiest and as accurate as any is by measuring the effective radius of a wheel and tire assembly .
This is done by measuring the distance from the surface on which the tire is resting to the center of the rear axle shaft .
A tire must be inflated to its normal hot operating pressure and the car must be loaded to its operating weight when this measurement is made .
The measurement must be in inches .
Any fraction of an inch involved in the measurement must be converted to a decimal equivalent to simplify the mathematics .
When tire size is measured in this manner a constant of 168 is used in the formula .
To determine car speed for a given combination of engine speed , gear ratio , and tire size , the formula is : Af .
For an engine speed of 5000 rpm , a gear ratio of 4.00 to 1 , and a tire radius of 13 inches , the equation would look like this : Af
.
To determine engine speed for a given combination of the other three factors the formula is : Af .
Using the same figures as for the previous example , the equation becomes : Af
.
To determine the rear axle gear ratio for a combination of the other three factors , the formula is : Af .
Using the figures from the previous examples , the equation becomes : Af .
Orlando , Fla. , Feb. 2
-- The best 2-year-old pacing mile up to date at Ben White Raceway has been that of Mary Liner ( Mainliner-Highland Ellen ) , a member of the Dick Williams stable , who was clocked 2:25 .
She is owned by Ralph H. Kroening , Milwaukee , Wis. , who , according to the railbirds , can feel justly proud of her .
Other good miles have been by Debonnie ( Dale Frost-Debby Hanover ) and Prompt Time ( Adios-On Time ) in 2:28-:36 ; ;
Kimberly Gal ( Galophone-Kimberly Hanover ) 2:26.2 ; ;
Laguerre Hanover ( Tar Heel-Lotus Hanover ) and Monel ( Tar Heel-Miracle Byrd ) in 2:34 .
Laguerre Hanover is outstanding in type and conformation -- good body , plenty of heart girth , stands straight on his legs on excellent feet -- and has the smoothest gait .
This colt is behind most of the other 2-year-olds in the Simpson stable but can show about as much pace as any of them .
Monel shows improvement with each work-out and looks the makings of a good brood mare after winning her share of races .
Stardel ( Star's Pride-Starlette Hanover ) , 2:34 , looks quite promising .
Fury Hanover ( Hoot Mon-Fay ) , Caper ( Hoot Mon-Columbia Hanover ) and Isaac ( Hoot Mon-Goddess Hanover ) has been working together but have not equalled their best work done some weeks ago .
Fury and Caper worked in 2:35 and did it with ease .
They are two good colts of different type .
Fury is upstanding and on the rangy side , and Caper is more the compact type .
I have never seen Caper off his feet -- he seems to know nothing but ' trot ' and keeps trying a little harder if asked to do so .
Fury has made a few mistakes but looks like a wonderful prospect , with his impressive gait and stride which certainly make him cover the ground .
Trackdown ( Torrid-Mighty Lady ) has worked a mile in 2:33.3 .
It took this colt several weeks to strike a pace .
Then , after emasculation , he was eased up for a couple of weeks .
He has thrived on all he has gone through and looks the makings of a good little race horse .
Thor Hanover ( Adios-Trustful Hanover ) is a wonderful looking prospect and another good individual , with solid , rugged conformation , good , flat bone and excellent feet .
This colt arrived at the Raceway early last November , and immediately was put into harness and line-driven for a few days , and then put to cart and broken in very nicely , knowing nothing but trot .
He appeared in the hopples about November 14 , was treated for worms on the 18th , the latter date being the first time he struck a real pace .
On December 5 he paced a mile in 55 on the twice-around , out in third position all the way .
This colt has done everything asked of him , and done it with ease .
His best mile to date is 2:32.2 .
Gamecock ( Tar Heel-Terka Hanover ) is another promising colt , and his best time is 2:32.2 .
This is one of the best-tempered Tar Heels ever at the center .
The first time he was harnessed he stood like a gentle old mare ; ;
the crupper under his tail seemed to be old stuff .
The fourth time in harness he walked off like a gentleman .
Being blistered for curbs has delayed his work somewhat .
But up to date he has shown as much as any in the big Simpson stable .
Hustler ( Knight Dream-Torkin ) is a playful bay rascal of a colt , not the best gaited , but he surely can pace and is right there with them , and sometimes leading them , in the best miles .
Torrid Freight ( Torrid-Breeze On Hal ) is a very rugged , strong-made colt with a wonderful stride who has done with ease everything asked of him .
His best time is around 2:33 .
Strongheart ( Adios-Direct Gal ) , a fair-looking sorrel colt , knows nothing but pace and has been right there in the best miles .
Torrid Adios ( Torrid-Adios Molly ) is not so masculine as most of the colts , but I like his type and he certainly is one of the best-gaited pacers on the grounds .
Blistered for curbs and laid off three weeks , he is coming along fine and looks like a pacer to me .
First Flyer ( Frisco Flyer-Castle Light ) looks like a splendid candidate for the Illinois Stakes .
His best time is 2:33.2 .
The colts in Simpson's stable have little if anything on the fillies , especially the pacers .
Justine Hanover ( Sampson Hanover-Justitia Hanover ) is improving with each work-out and paced 2:32.4 weeks ago .
Mrs. Freight ( Knight Dream-Miss Reed ) shows promise and does it in good form , and her best time is about 2:35 .
Hoopla ( Tar Heel-Holiday Hanover ) , a filly that wanted to trot , knocked herself October 31 and November 1 fighting the hopples .
She was then trained on the trot until December 29 , hitched to a breaking cart once around the half-mile track and hoppled again .
This time she submitted and in a few days was going good .
On January 11 she paced a mile in 2:43.1--:38 ; ;
on Jan. 18 2:37.3--:36.1 ; ;
on Jan. 21 , , 2:36 .
This filly is a much better individual than either of her full-sisters , Valentine Day and Cerise -- more scale and much better underpinning .
She is more like her full brother , Taraday Hanover , but larger .
Up to date she is a grand-looking filly .
Pete Dailey has four promising 2-year-old pacers .
Marquis Pick ( Gene Abbe-Direct Grattan ) seems to be the pick of the stable at the present time .
He is a fine-looking colt with a good body , good set of legs and nice way of going .
His best mile to date is 2:28-:33 .
Majestic Pick comes next , with a mile in 2:30-:33.2 .
This colt is another fine-looking equine .
Staley Hanover ( Knight Dream-Sweetmite Hanover ) is a little on the small side but a very compact colt and looks like one to stand training and many future battles with colts in his class .
Best time to date is 2:34-:34 .
Step Aside ( Direct Rhythm-Wily Widow ) has worked in 2:32 on the half-mile track and shows promise .
Most of Billy Haughton's 2-year-olds have worked from 2:40 to 2:35 .
Bonnie Wick ( Gene Abbe-Scotch Mary ) has gone in 2:36 ; ;
Hickory Ash ( Titan Hanover-Misty Hanover ) in 2:35 .
The first time I saw the latter filly she trotted by me and I noticed such a family resemblance that I said to myself , `` that must be Hickory Ash '' .
She is a beautiful filly and likes to trot .
Hickory Hill ( Star's Pride-Venus Hanover ) has gone in 2:33 ; ;
Hickory Spark ( Harlan-Hickory Tiny ) 2:37 ; ;
Buxton Hanover ( Tar Heel-Beryl Hanover ) 2:35 ; ;
Faber's Kathy ( Faber Hanover-Ceyway ) 2:37 ; ;
Honor Rodney ( Rodney-Honor Bright ) around 2:40 .
The last-named is a fine-looking , large colt , who has been unfortunate to be laid off for some time due to injuries .
He is going sound again now , and looks good .
Brief Candle ( Harlan-Marcia ) has gone in 2:37 ; ;
Lena Faber ( Faber Hanover-Chalidale Lena ) 2:33 ; ;
Martha Rodney ( Rodney-Miss Martha D. ) 2:35 ; ;
Checkit ( Faber Hanover-Supermarket ) 2:35 ; ;
Charm Rodney ( Rodney-The Charmer ) 2:37 ; ;
Fair Sail ( Farvel-Topsy Herring ) 2:36 ; ;
Custom Maid ( Knight Dream-Way Dream ) 2:34.2 ; ;
Jacky Dares ( ( Meadow Gene-Princess Lorraine ) 2:36 ; ;
Good Flying ( Good Time-Olivette Hanover ) 2:36 ; ;
Bordner Hanover ( Tar Heel-Betty Mahone ) 2:34 ; ;
Faber's Choice ( Faber Hanover-Sally Joe Whippet ) 2:36 ; ;
Invercalt ( Florican-Inverness ) 2:35 ; ;
Duffy Dares ( Meadow Gene-Princess Mite ) 2:36 ; ;
Harold J. ( Worthy Boy-Lady Scotland ) 2:36 ; ;
Knightfall ( Knight Dream-Miss Worthy Grapes ) 2:36 ; ;
Next Knight ( Knight Dream-Next Time ) 2:36 ; ;
Trader Jet ( Florican-My Precious ) 2:37 ; ;
Trader Rich ( Worthy Boy-Marquita Hanover ) 2:37 ; ;
Good Little Girl ( Good Time-Mynah Hanover ) 2:36 ; ;
Iosola Hanover ( Kimberly Kid-Isoletta Hanover ) 2:36 .
The last-named is one of the favorites in the stable , and the boys like her very much .
I will be able to tell you more about this string of equines in the near future .
I have just seen Debonnie and Prompt Time work a mile in 2:34 , last quarter in :35.3 .
In going away Debonnie got behind several lengths , stalling at the start -- she is a little fussy .
They left the three-quarters together and finished almost together .
Prompt Time shows class .
This filly is another Adios that wants to trot , and trot she did until forced to do otherwise .
After well broken and equipped with 12-oz. shoes on behind , bare-footed in front , she would trot a real storm with the master , Delvin , driving .
Being placed in the hopples she was completely baffled .
She hesitated , she hopped , she rolled and rocked , skipped and jumped , but in some two weeks she started to pace , From that time to this she has shown steady improvement and now looks like one of the classiest things on the grounds .
Rain on Friday prevented many workouts , but there were a few miles of note on Thursday .
Those responsible included Stardel Hanover ( Star's Pride-Starlette Hanover ) , 2:30-:34.3 ; ;
Lorena Gallon ( Bill Gallon-Loren Hanover ) , 2:30-:34.3 ; ;
Prudent Hanover ( Dean Hanover-Precious Hanover ) , 2:30.3-:35.3 ; ;
Premium Freight ( Titan Hanover-Pebble Hanover ) , 2:30.3-35.3 ; ;
Laguerre Hanover ( ( Tar Heel-Lotus Hanover ) , 2:30.3-:36.1 ; ;
Monel ( Tar Heel-Miracle Byrd ) , 2:30.3-:36.1 ; ;
Fury Hanover ( Hoot Mon-Fay ) , 2:30.3-:36 ; ;
Isaac ( Hoot Mon-Goddess Hanover ) , 2:30.3-:36 ; ;
Caper ( Hoot Mon-Columbia Hanover ) , 2:30.3-:36 ; ;
Lucky Freight ( Knight Dream-Lusty Helen ) , 2:31.3-:35.3 .
Sam Caton's Butterwyn ( Scotch Victor-Butler Wyn ) , a light bay filly , knows nothing but trot and has worked on the half-mile in 2:30-:36 .
Riverboat ( Dalzell-Cousin Rachel ) has gone in 2:38 .
Sam is having his troubles with Layton Hanover ( Dean Hanover-Lucy Hanover ) , but hopes to have him straightened out and going before long .
Jimmy Jordon is high on Adios Scarlet ( Adios-Rena Grattan ) and she sure looks good as she goes by .
Her best time to date is about 2:30 .
He also likes Hampton Hanover ( Titan Hanover-Bertie Hanover ) 2:37 .
Cathy J. Hanover ( Tar Heel-Kaola Hanover ) , formerly called Karet Hanover , has been rather a problem child , but is getting better all the while and can pace a twice around in about 2:31 .
Armbro Comet ( Nibble Hanover-Mauri Hanover ) has been in 2:38 .
Flick Nipe's and Neil Engle's Miss Phone ( Galophone-Prissy Miss ) is a fine-looking filly with good disposition and good gait , and she has worked up to date in 2:46 .
Del Mar , Calif. , Feb. 3
-- After 52 rainless days , moisture finally came to Del Mar , resulting in but one workout during the week for most of the horses , and leaving us with less than half our total average rainfall during the season .
While 2-year-olds are still gaining most of the attention at the track , green horses are starting to go a bit , and Jimmy Cruise has several that can really make it .
Work-outs for the week are as follows : Plain Scotch , 3 ( by Scotch Victor ) , Demon Law , 3 ( by Demon Hanover ) , Coffee Royal , p ( by Royal Blackstone ) and Beauty Way , p , 3 ( by Demon Hanover ) in 25 ; ;
Eddie Duke , p , 3 ( by Duke Of Lullwater ) , Marilyn C. , p ( by Sampson Hanover ) and Chalidale Barry , 5 ( by King's Ransom ) in 2:20 ; ;
Tiger Hanover , p , 3 ( by Adios ) in 2:26 ; ;
Sherwood Lass , 4 ( by Victory Song ) in 2:22 ; ;
and Dauntless , 3 ( by Greentree Adios ) in 2:32 .
For the aged horses : Mr. Budlong , p , 2:00.2 , Lottie Thomas , p , 2:04.2 , Mighty Signal 2:03 , Clever Braden , p , 2:01.1 , and Glow Star , p , 2:02.3 have been in 2:35 ; ;
Miss Demon Abbe , p , 1:59.3 has trotted in 2:26 , and is expected to race at this gait ; ;
Carter Creed , p , 3 , 2:01.1 , Great Lullwater 2:00.3 , and Hi Jay , p , 2:05.1 have been in 2:30 ; ;
Tanker T. , 3 , 2:05.3 is now wearing hopples and has trained in 2:19 ; ;
Stormy Dream , p , 2:01.3 , Demon Abbe , p , 2:02 , Dundeen B. , 4 , 2:04.2 , Claudia's Song , 3 , 2:06.3 , and ( Jet Fire , 4 , 2:02.2 have been in 2:25 ; ;
Maria Key , 2 , 2:06 looked great in 2:22 ; ;
Mocking Byrd , p , 2:01.1 has been in 2:12 , with a racing date approaching at Bay Meadows .
Dewey Urban has a clever green trotter in Dr. Orin I. , 3 ( by Yankee Hanover ) , his latest mile in 2:20 ; ;
Victory Sun , p , 2:04 has trained in 2:24 ; ;
Early Sun , p , 2:02.3 , Chester Maid 2:05 , Dark Sun , p , 2:06.1 , and Sun Tan Maid 2:05.2 have been in 2:21 .
The average reader of this magazine owns more than one gun ( we ran a survey to find out ) but he's always on the lookout for new and better arms .
He's more than a reader of outdoor articles ; ;
he's a real hunter and shooter , eager to improve his sport .
Well , if you're that kind of sportsman we're here to help you .
You've probably given a lot of Christmas-season thought to the guns in your rack , but it's not easy to decide on a new one .
You still have time to drop a few hints about the gifts you'd appreciate most ; ;
the time to decide on them is now .
As a Christmas service , I've taken a close look at this year's crop of new models .
Here they are , with my comments and judgments .
Read on , take your pick -- and start dropping those hints .
First on my own list would be two arms -- a rifle and a handgun -- that qualify as new in the strictest sense .
For me , a changed barrel length or an improved stock doesn't constitute a truly new design .
Such modifications are all for the best but it takes something as different as a Deerstalker or a Jet to change arms-making concepts .
Bill Ruger's long-awaited Deerstalker ( under $110 ) is a new rifle action in a caliber that upsets all the modern theory of high-velocity fans ; ;
it's a short , light , quick-handling , fast-firing little timber gun designed to push a heavy slug at modest velocity but with lots of killing power and ample range for our most popular big game -- whitetail .
Ruger reports that on his recent African safari the little Magnum cartridge was a real work horse .
Small antelope were generally grassed with one shot , and the Magnum carbine also bagged reedbuck , kob and wart hog with deadly efficiency ; ;
these are fairly large , tough animals .
The deadliness of the Magnum in a rifle comes as no surprise to me .
At least five years ago , Tom Robinson of Marlin made up an over/under double rifle for me in this caliber , using the now defunct Model 90 action in 20-gauge size .
After figuring out how to regulate the barrels so that they shot to the same point of impact , we fired this little 20-inch-barrel job on my home range and in Marlin's underground test gallery .
We quickly ran into the same trouble that plagued Bill Ruger in his first experiments : Three or four bullets would be placed well in a six-inch bull at 100 yards and then , unaccountably , one could stray far out of the group .
Ruger learned that this was because the higher velocity achieved in a long barrel was upsetting the shape of the unjacketed revolver bullet .
The new , jacketed slug in Magnum corrected this .
But even without jacketed bullets , I had enough faith in my double to take it on an opening-day deer hunt that first year .
Within half an hour I jumped a six-point buck that hop-skipped through a rhododendron thicket , and I caught him just behind the left foreleg at 60 yards .
He moved only about 30 feet after the 240-grain slug hit him -- and this was after the bullet had passed through a sapling .
Three more deer have fallen to this same gun , and all were one-shot kills .
My double was made with standard-weight revolver barrels ( before cutting to revolver length ) , and although it compares well in other respects , it's considerably heavier than the Deerstalker , which only scales about 6-1/2 pounds .
If ever a rifle met the needs of the whitetail hunter , this is it .
The Deerstalker points with the ease , speed and precision of a fine imported double shotgun , and its trigger pull is light and sharp .
The 240-grain bullet leaves the muzzle at 1,850 fps , which gives it all the smash needed at woods ranges .
With five shots at the immediate command of the hunter's trigger finger , the gun and load are a deadly combination .
The second really new development this year was a revolver handling a different sort of varmint load -- the
Remington Jet Magnum Center Fire .
At present it's available in one model , the fine and familiar Smith & Wesson Magnum revolver ( about $110 ) , long a top-quality handgun among target arms .
The velocity of this
, 40-grain bullet is rated at a very hot 2,460 fps , and it's the flattest shooting of any revolver cartridge , with a mid-range rise of about an inch over a 100-yard range .
This is a varmint load , pure and simple ; ;
it's much too explosive for small edible game .
It can cut a red squirrel neatly in two or burst a crow into a flurry of feathers .
The most intriguing aspect of the S & W Magnum chambered for the new Jet is that it can also fire standard
rim-fires by means of adapter sleeves in the chambers .
You may therefore convert the gun into a small-game and plinking arm , although the difference in the point of impact ( Jet vs. rim-fire ) can be somewhat disconcerting .
The accuracy of the Jet cartridge is fine ; ;
I tested it in my scoped S & W and it was good enough to allow me to hit a chuck with every shot at 100 yards if I did my part by holding the handgun steadily .
Hunting rifles , '61
The fact that the Deerstalker and the Jet were the only completely new designs this year doesn't mean that 1961 didn't see changes in models , actions and calibers .
Aside from the Ruger carbine , a number of hunting rifles have been introduced for the first time .
Here are the brands ( in alphabetical order ) and the new models .
Newcomers to the American hunter are the Browning group of bolt-action , high-power rifles .
They have fine FN actions and a better-than-average finish on both the metal and the stock wood .
Barrel weights vary sensibly with the various calibers available , and these include the standard bores ( about $165 ) plus the Magnums ( around $170 ) ; ;
the latter include the
, S & H , , and .
Shotgun-type rubber recoil pads are standard on all of the Magnums except the
.
Stock designs are excellent for use with scopes .
Colt's center-fire 1961 rifles are all made with Sako actions , regardless of caliber .
The
have the short action ; ;
the
and , the medium action , and the
, Af and the Magnums , the long action ( about $135 for the Standard Coltsman and $200 for the Custom version ) .
Previously , FN actions were used for the larger cartridges .
High Standard has introduced a
auto , the Sport-King , in two grades -- field and special ( less than $45 and just over $45 , respectively ) .
It's a streamlined rifle , fast and well-made .
Among
Magnum Rim-Fire rifles , 1961's lone newcomer was the Kodiak Model 260 autoloader ( around $60 ) .
Previously known as Jefferson Arms , Kodiak has given this 11-shot hammerless job an exceptionally fine stock design , and the 260 is the first autoloader to handle
Magnum rim-fires .
Marlin has made two contributions to the harvest of new offerings .
The Model 99 ( under $45 ) is a light-weight , streamlined
rim-fire auto with a tubular magazine that holds 18 Long Rifles .
It's extremely accurate for an auto , and the test rifle I tried was completely trouble-free in functioning .
The 989 ( about $40 ) is an even newer
auto , this one with a seven- or 12-shot clip .
Once again the Mossberg Targo outfit has appeared , but this time as a bolt-action rifle-shotgun combination .
The bore is unrifled but is provided with an insert tube which is rifled and which , surprisingly , gives pretty fair accuracy even though it's only 3-1/2 inches long .
You can unscrew this tube and replace it with a smoothbore insert for use with
shotshells -- to break the little Targo clay targets .
A trap for throwing these miniature clays fastens to the barrel so that the shooter can throw his own targets .
A spring trap for solid mounting and a regular hand trap are also available .
You can have your choice of a seven-shot repeater , the 340TR ( about $40 ) or a single-shot , the 320TR ( $10 less ) .
The Targo is a good outfit for fun shooting or for economic wing-shooting practice , but it's tougher than it looks to run up a score on the clay birds .
They'll travel 50 feet or more when thrown from the spring trap but it's almost impossible to break one after it passes the 35-foot mark .
The combination of thin pattern and very tiny pellets makes it necessary to get on the birds , right now ! !
Big Magnum calibers appeared in the Remington line for 1961 , with the addition of the and to the list of Model 725's .
These are made on special order only , in Kodiak grade ( about $310 ) , with integral muzzle brakes and heavy rubber recoil pads ; ;
they weigh around nine pounds .
A shortened version of the highly regarded Remington 742 autoloader also appeared in 1961 .
This carbine ( under $140 , about $15 more for a deluxe grade ) has an 18-1/2-inch barrel and was obviously inspired by the popularity of last year's Model 760 pump with a short-barrel .
This design is hard to beat for timber hunting or for packing in a saddle scabbard .
Presently , the 742C is available in Af .
The latest versions of the famous Savage Model 99 are the 99 Featherweight ( about $125 ) and the 99 Deluxe ( under $135 ) , which have a top-tang safety and improved trigger design .
The replacement of the slide-lock side safety catch will make this lever-action favorite more appealing than ever since the new safety is easier and faster to operate .
Beginners' guns , '61
A fresh crop of beginners' guns showed up in 1961 , and they're good bets for your Christmas gift list if you're wondering what to get for a youngster .
The most unusual of them is the Ithaca 49 ( about $20 , $5 for a saddle scabbard ) -- a lever-action single-shot patterned after the famous Winchester lever-action and featuring the Western look .
Because of its traditional lines , it probably has more kid appeal than any other model .
The action is a drop-block , handling all the standard
rim-fires .
Marlin's latest is also designed for the beginning shooter , although it's a full-sized rifle with plenty of barrel weight and ample stock .
This is the Model 122 ( about $20 ) ; ;
it's a single-shot bolt-action with an automatic safety -- i.e. , the safety goes on every time the bolt is lifted and the gun cocked for the next shot .
Stock design is excellent , and this model is a good first gun .
Another boy's model is the
single-shot Remington 514C ( around $20 ) , which comes with a 21-inch barrel and a short -- 12-1/2-inch -- stock ; ;
it's just right for a boy of 12-1/2 .
A beginner's shotgun has also been introduced this year .
The single-barrel Stevens 940Y ( under $35 ) is made with a side lever rather than a top-tang lever because many youngsters aren't strong enough to operate a top tang to open a gun -- and the side lever does indeed open very easily .
This gun has a 12-1/2-inch stock and is available in either 20 or gauge .
There's another addition to the Stevens line , the pump-action Model 77 in ( under $75 ) , which you may or may not consider a kid's gun ; ;
many experienced hunters like this gauge and type of scattergun too .
Shotguns , '61
Although there were no startling developments in shotgun design this year , a number of new models and variations of existing models did hit the market .
For example , a Browning trap version of the Superposed over/under , the Broadway ( from $350 up , depending on grade ) , differs from standard models in that it is equipped with a full beavertail fore end , a cushion recoil pad and a barrel-wide ventilated rib for fast sighting .
The Colt line now includes a new scattergun , the Standard or Custom Pump Model ( about $90 and $150 , respectively ) in 12 , 16 and 20 .
Firearms International has introduced another import , this one from Finland .
It's the Valmet ( about $170 ) , a 12-gauge over/under very much like the old Remington 32 -- which was so fine a gun that today a used one still brings high prices .
High Standard has also added two models to its line .
The Supermatic Trophy ( prices begin at less than $135 and depend on grade and optional features ) is a 12-gauge auto .
The Flite-King Trophy ( beginning at just over $85 ) is a pump gun in 12 or 16 .
Either model is a very good dollar value .
Mossberg's latest contribution to the field is the Model 500 ( from $73.50 ) ; ;
this is an improved version of the old Model 200 , a pump-action 12-gauge shotgun .
See page 24 for a complete report on it .
Handguns , '61
Aside from the
Jet -- which I coupled with the Deerstalker carbine as one of the year's two biggest developments -- few significant innovations appeared among 1961's handguns .
Livery stable -- J. Vernon , prop. '' .
Coaching had declined considerably by 1905 , but the sign was still there , near the old Wells Fargo building in San Francisco , creaking in the fog as it had for thirty years .
John Vernon had had all the patronage he cared for -- he had prospered , but he could not retire from horsedom .
Coaching was in his blood .
He had two interests in life : the pleasures of the table and driving .
Twice a week he drove his tallyho over the Santa Cruz road , upland and through the redwood forest , with orchards below him at one hand , and glimpses of the Pacific at the other .
The journey back he made along the coast road , traveling hell-for-leather , every lantern of the tallyho ablaze .
The southward route was the classic run in California , and the most fashionable .
His patronage on this stretch was made up largely of San Franciscans -- regulars , most of them , and trenchermen like himself .
They did not complain at the inhuman hour of starting ( seven in the morning ) , nor of the tariff , which was reasonable since it covered everything but the tobacco .
Breakfast was at the Palace Hotel , luncheon was somewhere in the mountain forest , and dinner was either at Boulder Creek or at Santa Cruz .
Gazing too long at the scenery could be tiring , so halts were contrived between meals .
Then the Chinese hostler , who rode with Vernon on the box , would break open a hamper and produce filets of smoked bass or sturgeon , sandwiches , pickled eggs , and a rum sangaree to be heated over a spirit lamp .
In spring and in autumn the run was made for a group of botanists which included an old friend of mine .
They gathered roots , bulbs , odd ferns , leaves , and bits of resin from the rare Santa Lucia fir , which exists only on a forty-five mile strip on the westerly side of these mountains .
In the Spanish days Franciscan monks roamed here to collect the resin for incense .
It yields a fragrance as Orphic as that of the pastilles of Malabar .
Vernon was serviceable on the botanical field trips , but he could arrange no schedule with the cooks , and he was glad when the trips dropped off , and the botanists began to motor out by themselves .
My friend often breakfasted with Vernon on the morning of the regular tallyho run .
This was an honor , like dining with a captain at his private table .
Vernon's office adjoined the stable , and the walls were adorned with brightly colored lithographs , the folk art of the period .
They advertised harness polish , liniments , Ball's Rubber Boots , Green River Whiskey , Hood's Sarsaparilla , patent medicines , shoe blacking , and chewing tobacco .
The hostler would have the table ready and a pot of coffee hissing on the stove ; ;
then a porter from Manning's Fish House would trot in with a tray on his head .
It was draped with snowy napkins that kept hot a platter of oyster salt roast and a mound of corn fritters .
Vernon was consummately fond of oysters , and Manning's had been famous for them since the Civil War .
Oyster salt roast -- oysters on the half shell , cooked on a bed of coarse salt that kept them hot when served -- was a standby at Manning's .
Its early morning patrons were coachmen , who fortified themselves for the day with that delicacy .
In the 1890's the Palace Hotel began serving an oyster dish named after its manager , John C. Kirkpatrick .
This dish much resembles the oysters Rockefeller made famous by Antoine's in New Orleans , though the Palace chef announced it as a variant of Manning's roast oysters .
( Gastronomes have long argued about which came first , the Palace's or Antoine's .
Antoine's held as mandatory a splash of absinthe or Pernod on the parsley or spinach which was used for the underbedding .
The Kirkpatrick version holds liqueur as optional .
) Vernon , however , held out for plain oyster roast , and plenty of it , unadorned by herbs or any seasoning but salt , though he did fancy a bit of lemon .
After the meal , he and his guests went out to inspect the rig ; ;
this was merely a ritual , to please all hands concerned .
The tallyho had cost Vernon $2,300 .
A replica of two coaches made in England for the Belmont Club in the East , and matchless west of the Rockies , it was the despair of whips on the Santa Cruz run .
One could shave in the reflection of its French-polished panels , and its axles were greased like those of roulette wheels .
The horses were groomed to a high gloss ; ;
departing , they stepped solemnly with knees lifted to the jaw , for they had been trained to drag at important funerals .
But for the start of the Santa Cruz run , the whip fell .
The clients boarded the tallyho at the Palace promptly at seven .
They had been fed a hunting breakfast , so called because a kedgeree , the dish identified with fox hunting , was on the bill .
There are many ways of making a kedgeree , every one of which is right .
Here is an original kedgeree recipe from the Family Club's kitchen :
Club Kedgeree
Flake ( for three ) a cupful of cold boiled haddock , mix with a cupful of cooked rice , two minced hard-boiled eggs , some buttery white sauce done with cream , cayenne , pepper , salt , a pinch of curry , a tablespoonful of minced onion fried , and a bit of anchovy .
Heat and serve hot on toast .
The omelet named for Ernest Arbogast , the Palace's chef , was even more in demand .
For decades it was the most popular dish served in the Ladies' Grill at breakfast , and it is one of the few old Palace dishes that still survive .
Native California oysters , salty and piquant , as coppery as Delawares and not much larger than a five-cent piece , went into it .
The original formula goes thus :
omelet Arbogast
Fry in butter a small minced onion , rub with a tablespoonful of flour , add half a cup of cream , six beaten eggs , pepper , celery salt , a teaspoonful of minced chives , a dash of cayenne , and a pinch of nutmeg .
A jigger of dry Sherry follows , and as the mixture stiffens , in go a hundred of the little oysters .
Louis Sherry once stayed a fortnight at the Palace , and he was so pleased with omelet Arbogast that he introduced it at his restaurant in New York J. Pierpont Morgan had come in his private train to San Francisco , to attend an Episcopal convention , and brought the restaurateur with him .
As things happened , Morgan was installed in the Nob Hill residence of a magnate friend , whose kitchen swarmed with cooks of approved talent .
Sherry remained in his hotel suite , where he amused himself as best he could .
Twice he left everything to his entourage , and fled to make the Santa Cruz tour under Vernon's guidance .
In the grand court of the Palace , notable for its tiers of Moorish galleries that looked down on the maelstrom of vehicles below , Vernon's station was at the entrance .
It was a post of honor , held inviolate for him ; ;
he had the primacy among the coachmen .
Of majestic build , rubicund and slash-mouthed , he resembled the late General Winfield Scott , who was said to be the most imposing general of his century , if not of all centuries .
Vernon wore a gray tall hat , a gardenia , and maroon Wellington boots that glistened like currant jelly .
Promptly at seven he would clatter out of the court with twelve in the tallyho .
He had style : he held his reins in a loose bunch at the third button of his checked Epsom surtout , and when the horses leaned at a curve , as if bent by the force of a gale , he leaned with them .
They cantered down the peninsula , not slackening until the coach reached Woodside where the Santa Cruz uplands begin .
The road maps of the region have changed since 1905 ; ;
inns have burned down , moved elsewhere , or taken other names .
Once on the road ( and especially if the passengers were all regulars and masculine ) , the schedule meant nothing .
An agreeable ease suffused Vernon and the passengers of the tallyho , from which there issued clouds of smoke .
Vernon would tilt his hat over one ear as he lounged with his feet on the dashboard , indulging in a huge cigar .
The horses moved at a clump ; ;
they were no more on parade than was their driver ; ;
one fork of the road was as good as another .
The Santa Cruz mountains sprawl over three counties , and the roads twist through sky-tapping redwoods down whose furrowed columns ripple streams of rain , even when heat bakes the Santa Clara valley below at the left .
The water splashes into shoulder-high tracts of fernery .
You arrive there in seersucker , and feel you were half-witted not to bring a mackintosh .
Vernon kept an account book with a list of all the establishments that he thought worthy of patronage .
A number of them must have fallen into disfavor ; ;
they were struck out with remarks in red ink , denouncing both the cooks and the management .
He was copious in his praise of those that served food that was good to eat .
The horses seemed to know these by instinct , he used to say : such places invariably had stables with superior feed bins .
There was Wright's , for one , lost amongst trees , its wide verandas strewn with rockers .
Many of its sojourners were devoted to seclusion and quiet , and lived there to the end of their days .
It was the haunt of writer Ambrose Bierce , who admired its redwoods .
Acorns from the great oaks fed the small black pigs ( akin to Berkshires ) , whose `` carcass sweepstakes '' were renowned .
Their ham butts , cured in oak-log smoke , were also esteemed when roasted or boiled , and served with this original sauce :
Wright's devil sauce
; ;
put into a saucepan a cupful of the baked ham gravy , or of the boiled ham liquor , with a half stick of butter , three teaspoonfuls of made mustard , and two mashed garlic cloves .
Contribute also an onion , a peeled tomato and two pickled gherkins , and a mashed lime .
After this has simmered an hour , add two tablespoons each of Worcestershire , catsup , and chutney , two pickled walnuts , and a pint of Sherry .
Then simmer fifteen minutes longer .
Every winter a kegful of this sauce was made and placed at the end of a row of four other kegs in the cellar , so that when its turn came , it was properly mellowed .
Vineyards and orchards also grew around Wright's , and deer were rather a nuisance ; ;
they leaped six-foot fences with the agility of panthers .
But no one complained when they wound up , regardless of season , in venison pies .
No one complained of the white wine either : at this altitude of two thousand feet , grapes acquire a dryness and the tang of gunflint .
( The Almaden vineyards have now climbed to this height .
) Apple trees grew there also .
Though creeks in the Santa Cruz mountains flow brimful the year round and it is forever spring , the apples that grow there have a wintry crackle .
Dwellers thereabouts preferred to get their apple pies at the local bakery , which had a brick oven fired with redwood billets .
The merit of the pie , Vernon believed , was due more to its making than to the waning heat of the oven .
The recipe , which he got from the baker , and wrote down in his ledger , is basically this :
Wright's apple pie
; ;
peel , core , and slice across enough apples to make a dome in the pie tin , and set aside .
In a saucepan put sufficient water to cover them , an equal amount of sugar , a sliced lemon , a tablespoonful of apricot preserve or jam , a pinch each of clove and nutmeg , and a large bay leaf .
Let this boil gently for twenty minutes , then strain .
Poach the apples in this syrup for twelve minutes , drain them , and cool .
Set the apples in the pastry-lined tin , spread over them three tablespoonfuls of softened butter , with as much brown sugar , a sprinkling of nutmeg , and a fresh bay leaf , then lay on a cover of pastry , and gild it with beaten yolk of egg .
Those who have never traveled the width and length of this land cannot conceive , on the basis of textbook description alone , the overwhelming space and variety of this country held together under one government .
The miracle of democratic America comes home to one most strongly only when one has seen the endless Great Plains of the Midwest ; ;
the sky-reaching peaks of the Northwest mountains ; ;
the smoke-filled , art-filled , drama-filled life of the great cities of the East ; ;
the lush and historic charm of the South .
Now , to add to the already unbelievable extremes found in one nation , we have the two new states of Hawaii and Alaska .
To hope to cover just one region of this land and to enjoy all of its sights and events and , of course , to bring back pictures of your experiences , requires advance planning .
For this reason , U.S. Camera has prepared this special U.S.A. vacation feature .
We divided the country into five regions plus Hawaii and Alaska and in each is included a general description of the area plus specific recommendations of places and events to cover .
Any special photographic requirements are also given .
Use this section to plan now to make the most of your vacation in photogenic America .
The Northeast
birthplace of the nation , the Northeast offers historic battlefields ; ;
lovely old villages and a rugged seashore among its many worthwhile sights .
The rolling farms of Maryland , the peerless metropolis of New York City , the verdant mountains of Vermont can all be included in your Northeast vacation .
By automobile from New York , for example , you can take a one or two-day tour to Annapolis , Maryland to see the colonial homes and the U.S. Naval Academy ( where you can shoot the dress parade on Wednesdays ) ; ;
to Washington , D.C. , for an eye-filling tour of the city ; ;
or to Lancaster , Pa. , the center of the Pennsylvania Dutch country ; ;
Philadelphia with its historic buildings and nearby Valley Forge ; ;
to West Point , N.Y. , the famous military academy in a beautiful setting on the Hudson River .
New England deserves as much of your vacation time as you can afford with such areas as Cape Cod providing wonderful beaches , artists' colonies and quaint townships .
From here you can easily include a side trip to the old whaling port of Nantucket , Massachusetts , which looks just as it must have two centuries ago .
At Sturbridge Village , Massachusetts , you'll find a completely-restored New England town .
North to Acadia National Park , Maine , with views of a rockbound coast and dark , magnificent forests .
One of the most exciting ways to end a Northeast vacation would be with a week in New York City .
Return through New England , stopping for a visit to Lake Champlain where you can take a boat ride and go to Ethan Allen Park .
There you'll witness a view which includes the Adirondack Mts. and the Winooski River .
Now you're ready for a whirlwind sightseeing tour of America's most exciting city .
The skyline , the bridges , Broadway , and the Staten Island ferry are only a few of the spots to put on your `` must '' list for New York City .
Photographing in the Northeast
Some tips for shooting in Northeastern locales : In New York City don't miss coverage of the United Nations .
These striking , modernistic buildings on the East River are open to the public and every weekday guided tours are available .
Pictures can be taken in the public areas and when on tours .
However , the use of tripods is not allowed .
Photos of Conference Rooms and the General Assembly Hall can be made when these rooms are not being used for meetings .
Flash is allowed , subject to above restrictions .
Around New England , you'll no doubt want a color shot of one of the picturesque lighthouses .
Be careful here not to overexpose this subject since they are extremely bright and light-reflecting .
In color , 1/50th of a second between Af and Af will do for bright , frontal sunlight .
The South
the southern United States , extending from Florida in the east to Texas in the west , still maintains its unique flavor of gracious living and historical elegance .
It encompasses in its expanse areas where the natural beauty encourages a vacation of quiet contemplation , on the one hand , to places where entertainment and spectacles of all sorts have been provided for the tourist with camera .
Of special interest this anniversary year of the war between the states are the many Civil War battlefields where , likely as not , you'll catch some memorial re-enactments .
Among the locales to visit are Shiloh , Tennessee ; ;
Lookout Mountain , Tennessee ; ;
Vicksburg , Mississippi ; ;
Richmond , Virginia ; ;
Petersburg , Virginia , and Fredericksburg , Virginia .
Florida provides tropical scenes unequalled in the United States .
At Cypress Gardens special bleachers are set up for photographers at water-ski shows and lovely models pose for pictures in garden settings .
Silver Springs features glass-bottom boat rides and in Everglades National Park there are opportunities to photograph rare wildlife .
Miami Beach and surroundings feature fabulous `` hotel row '' , palm-studded beaches plus the Miami Seaquarium and Parrot Jungle .
One of the most delightful spots in a southern tour is the city of New Orleans .
The famous old French and Spanish buildings with their elaborate wrought iron balconies and the narrow streets of the Latin Quarter present an Old World scene .
For restoration of early American life the places to visit are Williamsburg , Jamestown and Yorktown , Virginia .
Another Virginia sight and a photographic adventure are the Luray Caverns , lit by photofloodlights .
The great state of Texas offers metropolitan attractions such as the Dallas Fair Park with its art and natural history museums .
In contrast are the vast open stretches of ranch country and oil wells .
In San Antonio visit the famous Alamo and photograph 18th Century Spanish buildings and churches .
The Great Smoky Mountains is another area of the South well worth a visit .
Along the 127-mile route through Great Smoky Mountains National Park you can photograph the breath-taking peaks , gorges and valleys which come into view at every turn .
Gatlinburg , Tennessee , is the center of this area .
Another scenic spot in Tennessee is Chattanooga where the Rock City Gardens are not to be missed .
Beautiful homes and gardens are trademarks of the South and cities particularly noted for them are Charleston , S.C. , Natchez , Miss. , and Savannah , Ga. .
At Charlottesville , Va. , shoot Monticello and the beautiful buildings of the University .
Picturing the south
Foliage is the outstanding photo subject in many of the Southern locales mentioned above and some specific tips on how and where to shoot it are in order .
For example , the Chamber of Commerce of Gatlinburg , Tennessee , sponsors special camera tours into the Great Smoky Mountains to get pictures of the profusion of wild flowers flourishing in these wooded regions .
Exposure problems may occur in these forest areas where uneven lighting results from shafts of sunlight filtering through the overhead branches .
Best solution is to find an area that is predominantly sunlight or shade .
In any instance , you should determine the exposure according to the type of light which falls on most of the subject area .
Try some closeups on Southern blossoms to provide a welcome contrast with the many long-view scenics you'll be making .
For shooting the interiors of the famous ante-bellum Southern mansions make sure your equipment includes a tripod .
Enough daylight is usually available from the windows , but if you have synchronized flash -- use it .
For some unusual photographic subjects , if your vacation takes you nearby , try these events : the 600-mile auto race in Charlotte , N.C. , , on May 27 ; ;
the Florida Folk Festival , White Springs , May 5-7 ; ;
Singing On The Mountain in Linville , North Carolina , on June 25 .
Peak action photography is your goal at Miami's Seaquarium and the Cypress Gardens waterskiing events .
The Midwest
A pleasant start to your midwestern vacation is a few days spent in cosmopolitan Chicago .
Lake Michigan offers swimming and pictures which combine cityscapes with beaches .
A visit to Chicago's museums and a stroll around broad Michigan Avenue will unfold many photogenic subjects to the alert photographer .
Wisconsin Dells , where fantastically scenic rocks carved by the Wisconsin River are overgrown with fern and other foliage , rates a stopover when traveling from Chicago .
The farmlands forming the heart of America stretch out across the Midwest from Chicago .
In North Dakota the strangely beautiful Badlands will challenge you to translate its wonder on to film .
While here , visit Theodore Roosevelt National Park for its spectacular scenery .
Another spot with an image-provoking name is the Black Hills where you can visit the old frontier mining town of Deadwood .
The Black Hills Passion Play is produced every summer and is a pageant worth seeing and shooting .
Of course , while in this vicinity you won't want to miss a visit to Mount Rushmore National Memorial where on the side of a mountain are the famous sculptures of Presidents Washington , Lincoln , Jefferson and Theodore Roosevelt .
In Missouri ( which we are including in our general Midwest region ) you can glance into Mark Twain's birthplace at Hannibal , see the landmarks of his life and writings and visualize where Huck Finn hatched his boyish mischief .
Similarly in Illinois there is Lincoln country to be seen -- his tomb and other landmarks .
Minnesota , fabled land of waters , is in itself , ideal vacationland , having within its borders 10,000 lakes ! !
Itasca State Park , where the Mississippi River begins , is one of the outstanding tourist spots in Minnesota .
Mementoes of the Old West recall the days of Wyatt Earp in Dodge City , Nebraska , where present-day cowboys add a colorful human interest note to your vacation shooting .
Of current interest is Abilene , Kansas , the birthplace of ex-President Eisenhower .
There's a museum here and also Old Abilene Town , a reconstruction of the cattle boomtown of the 70's and 80's .
For a resort area , Mackinack Island , Michigan , is the place to visit .
It truly relives another age for the inhabitants use carriages rather than autos and old British and French forts are left intact for tourists to visit and record .
Pictures of the Midwest
Night scenes will add an exciting touch to your vacation travelogue and what better place to take them then along Chicago's Lake Shore Drive ? ?
Just after sunset is a good time to record the city lights in color since you get a `` fill-in '' light from the sky .
Another memo for sightseers : bring your camera along to museums .
Photos of historic dioramas of the area you visit will add depth and background to your vacation photo story .
Again , be sure your tripod is handy for those sometimes-necessary time exposures .
Special events and their dates which will make interesting shooting in the Midwest area , include the following :
A re-enactment of the Battle of Lexington , May 18th at Lexington , Missouri ; ;
the world-renowned 500-mile auto race at Indianapolis , Indiana , plus a festival from May 27-30 ; ;
`` Song Of Hiawatha '' , in Elgin , Illinois , from June 20 to 24th .
Michigan offers the lovely Tulip Festival in Holland , Michigan , May 12-14 ; ;
the USGA Open in Birmingham from June 15-17 ; ;
and the International Freedom Festival in Detroit , June 29 thru July 4 .
For early vacationers there's the fun-filled Fishing Derby in Hot Springs , Arkansas , April 19-23 , and the Arkansas Band Festival in Hot Springs , April 20-22 .
The West
A western vacation is practically synonymous with a visit to at least one of the magnificent national parks in this area .
A tour of several of them is possible in a two-week vacation while a stay at just one of these natural beauty spots can be of equal reward .
In California is located one of the most popular of the national parks -- Yosemite .
Among its most spectacular features are its falls , the highest being Upper Yosemite which drops 2,425 feet .
The Sequoia Grove presents another unique aspect of Yosemite , for these ancient giant trees are a sight never to be forgotten .
In the Utah area are Zion National Park and Bryce Canyon National Park .
Fantastic colors are to be seen in the fanciful formations of eroded rock which loom out of the semiarid country in both parks .
Colorado's Grand Canyon , probably the most famous landmark of the United States , can be the highpoint of your Western vacation .
Built upon seven hills , Istanbul , like Rome , is one of the most ancient cities in the world , filled with splendor and contrast .
It is an exotic place , so different from the ordinary that the casual tourist is likely to see at first only the contrast and the ugliness of narrow streets lined with haphazard houses .
At the moment , many of these are being pulled down .
Whole blocks are disappearing and more are scheduled to vanish to make room for wide boulevards that will show off its treasures to better advantage -- the great domes and graceful spires of its mosques , the panorama of the Bosphorus and the Golden Horn .
Even when they are finished , however , the contrast will remain , for Istanbul is the only city in the world that is built upon two continents .
For almost 3,000 years Europe and Asia have rubbed shoulders in its streets .
Founded in the Ninth Century B.C. it was called Byzantium 200 years later when Byzas , ruler of the Megarians , expanded the settlement and named it after himself .
About a thousand years after that , when the Roman Empire was divided , it became capital of the Eastern section .
On May 11,330 , A.D. , , its name was changed again , this time to Constantinople after its emperor , Constantine .
In 1453 when the last vestige of ancient Roman power fell to the Turks , the city officially shifted religions -- although the Patriarch , or Pope , of the Orthodox Church continued to live there , and still does -- and became the capital of the Ottoman Empire .
When that was broken up after the First World War , its name was changed once more .
Rich in Christian and Moslem art , Istanbul is today a fascinating museum of East and West that recently became a seaside resort as well with the development of new beaches on the Bosphorus and the Sea of Marmara only a short distance from the center of town .
Easy to get to , and becoming more popular every year , it is only fourteen hours from New York by Pan American World Airways jet , four hours from Rome .
Start of tour
Most of the sights lie in the old section across the Golden Horn from the modern hotels .
I started my tour of them at the Turkish Government Tourist Office , next to Pan American's office on the left as you enter the driveway that leads to the Hilton Hotel .
From there I turned left along Cumhuriyet Cadesi past more hotels and a park on the left , Republic Gardens , and came in a few moments to Taksim Square , one of the hubs of the city , with the Monument of the Republic , erected in 1928 , in its center .
Directly across from the Gardens I found a bus stop sign for T 4 and rode it down to the Bosphorus , with the sports center on my left just before I reached the water and the entrance to Dolmabahce Palace immediately after that .
There the bus turned right along the Bosphorus , past ocean liners at anchor , to Galata Bridge over the entrance to the Golden Horn , a brown sweep of water that empties into the Bosphorus .
Across the bridge on the left I saw St. Sophia with its sturdy brown minarets and to the right of them the slenderer spires of the Blue Mosque .
On the other side of the Golden Horn I rode through Eminonu Square , with Yeni Cami , or the New Mosque , which dates from the Seventeenth Century , just across from the entrance to the bridge .
Passing it , the bus climbed a hill , with the covered spice bazaar on the right and Pandelli's , a famous and excellent restaurant , above it .
At the top of the hill the buildings on the left gave way to a park .
I got off there , crossed the street , walked ahead with St. Sophia on my left , the Blue Mosque on my right , and in a moment came to the entrance of St. Sophia .
Erected on the site of pagan temples and three previous St. Sophias , the first of which was begun by Constantine , this fourth church was started by Justinian in 532 and completed twenty years later .
On his first trip to the finished structure he boasted that he had built a temple grander than Solomon's in Jerusalem .
A few years later the dome fell in .
Nevertheless , it remained one of the most splendid churches of the Eastern Empire , where the Byzantine Emperors were crowned .
After the Turks conquered the city in 1453 they converted it to a mosque , adding the stubby minarets .
In the second half of the Sixteenth Century , Sinan , the great architect who is the Michelangelo of the East , designed the massive buttresses that now help support the dome .
With the birth of the Turkish Republic after the First World War , St. Sophia became a museum , and the ancient mosaics , which were plastered over by the Moslems , whose religion forbids pictures in holy places , have been restored .
Inside over the first door I saw one of these , which shows Constantine offering the city to the Virgin Mary and Justinian offering the temple .
On the columns around the immense dome are round plaques with Arabic writing .
The eight green columns , I learned , came from the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus , the others , red , from the Temple of the Sun at Heliopolis .
Beneath the dome I saw the spot where the Byzantine Emperors were crowned , a bit of floor protected now by a wooden fence .
Behind this is a minber or Moslem pulpit and near it a raised platform with golden grillwork , where the emperors and , after them , the sultans , sat .
Directly opposite is the emperor's door , through which they entered the building .
Outside St. Sophia I walked through the flower garden in front of it , with the Blue Mosque ahead on my left .
Across the street on my right I saw the Hippodrome , now a park .
It was laid out in 196 for chariot races and other public games .
Statues and other monuments that stood there were stolen , mostly by the waves of Crusaders .
At the beginning of the Hippodrome I saw the Kaiser's Fountain , an ugly octagonal building with a glass dome , built in 1895 by the German Emperor , and on my left , directly across from it , the tomb of Sultan Ahmet , who constructed the Blue Mosque , more properly known by his name .
Just before coming to the mosque entrance I crossed the street , entered the Hippodrome , and walked ahead to the Obelisk of Theodosius , originally erected in Heliopolis in Egypt about 1,600 B.C. by Thutmose , who also built those now in New York , London and Rome at the Lateran .
This one was set up here in 390 A.D. on a pedestal , the faces of which are carved with statues of the emperor and his family watching games in the Hippodrome , done so realistically that the obelisk itself is included in them .
Beyond it I noted a small green column , about twelve feet below the present ground level -- the Serpentine Column , three entwined serpents , which once stood at the Temple of Apollo at Delphi , Greece .
Near the end of the Hippodrome I came upon the Built Column , a truncated obelisk of blocks , all that remains of a monument that once rivalled the Colossus of Rhodes .
Magnificent Mosque
Retracing my steps to the Mosque of Sultan Ahmet , only one with six minarets , I entered the courtyard , with a gallery supported by pointed arches running around it and a fountain in the middle .
One of the most beautiful buildings in Istanbul , it was constructed in the early years of the Seventeenth Century , with a huge central dome , two half domes that seem to cascade down from it , and smaller full domes around the gallery .
The round minarets , tall and graceful , rise from rectangular bases and have three platforms from which the muezzin can chant his call to prayer .
Inside , the walls are covered with blue and white tile , the floor with red and cream carpets .
Back at the Kaiser's Fountain , I walked left to the streetcar stop and rode up the hill -- any car will do -- past the Column of Constantine , also known as the Burnt Column , at the top on my right .
It stands in the middle of what was once the Forum of Constantine , who brought it from Rome .
I stayed on the car for a few minutes until , turning right , it entered a huge square , Bayezit , with the Bayezit Mosque on the right and the gate to the university just beyond it .
There I got off , crossed the square , and on the side directly opposite the gate found a good restaurant , hard to come by in this part of the city .
Called the Marmara Gazinosu , it is on the third floor , with signs pointing the way there , and has a terrace overlooking the Sea of Marmara .
After lunch , in the arcade on my left just before reaching the street I found a pastry shop that sells some of the best baklava -- a sweet , flaky cake -- in Istanbul .
It's a great favorite of the university students , and I joined them there for dessert .
Taking the streetcar back to Kaiser's Fountain , I walked ahead , then left down the street opposite St. Sophia and just beyond the corner came to a small , one-story building with a red-tile roof , which is the entrance to the Sunken Palace .
Actually an underground cistern , its roof supported by rows and rows of pillars , it was built by Justinian in the Sixth Century to supply the palace with water .
There is still water in it .
I found it fairly depressing and emerged almost immediately .
Outside I walked past the entrance to St. Sophia , turned left at the end of it , and continued toward a gate in the wall ahead .
Just before reaching it I came to a grey and brown stone building that looks somewhat like an Oriental pagoda , with Arabic lettering in gold and colored tile decorations -- the Fountain of Sultan Ahmet .
Going through the Imperial Gate in the wall , I entered the grounds of Topkapi Palace , home of the Sultans and nerve center of the vast Ottoman Empire , and walked along a road toward another gate in the distance , past the Church of St. Irene , completed by Constantine in 330 A.D. on my left , and then , just outside the second gate , I saw a spring with a tap in the wall on my right -- the Executioner's Spring , where he washed his hands and his sword after beheading his victims .
Passing through the gate , with towers on either side once used as prisons , I entered a huge square surrounded by buildings , and on the wall to my right found a general plan of the grounds , with explanations in English for each building .
There are a good many of them .
At one time about 10,000 people lived there .
Following arrowed signs , I veered right toward the former kitchens , complete with chimneys , which now house one of the world's greatest collections of Chinese porcelain and a fabulous array of silver dinner services .
Next to it is a copper section , with cooking utensils and a figure of the chief cook in an elaborate , floor-length robe .
In the court once more , I went right toward the Reception House , a long one-story building with a deep portico .
Going through a door into another small court , I had the Throne Room directly in front .
I walked to the right around it to buildings containing illuminated manuscripts and came to the Treasury , which houses such things as coffee cups covered with diamonds , jewelled swords , rifles glittering with diamonds and huge divan-like thrones as large as small beds , on which the sultans sat cross-legged .
They are made of gold and covered with emeralds , pearls and other jewels .
Taking the path behind the Throne Room to the building directly beyond it , the Portrait Gallery , I went right at the end of it , through a garden to a small building at the back -- a sitting room furnished with low blue divans , its floor covered with carpets , its ceiling painted with gold squares and floral designs .
( Do start fires one or two hours ahead of time to obtain a lasting bed of glowing coals .
Keep ashes from one barbecue to the next to sprinkle over coals if they are too hot , and to stop flames that arise from melting grease .
Do line barbecue fire bowl with heavy foil to reflect heat .
Don't forget to buy a plastic pastry brush for basting with sauces .
Clean it meticulously in boiling water and detergent , rinse thoroughly .
Do build a wall of glowing coals six to eight inches in front of meat that is barbecued on an electric spit .
Make use of the back of the barbecue or of the hood for heating vegetables , sauces and such .
Don't fail to shorten cooking time by the use of aluminum foil cut slightly larger than the surface of steaks and chops .
Sear on both sides then cover meat loosely with heat reflecting foil for juiciest results .
Do avoid puncturing or cutting into meats to test them .
If doubtful about a steak , boldly cut it in half .
If necessary to replace both halves on grill , sear cuts and allot extra time .
For roasts , insert meat thermometer diagonally so it does not rest on bone .
Also make sure thermometer does not touch the revolving spit or hit the coals .
Don't practice a new recipe on guests .
Have a test-run on the family first , to be sure timing and seasoning are right .
Do buy meat the day or the day before you intend to cook it .
Keep it no longer than 36 hours before cooking , and keep it in the coldest ( but non-freezing ) compartment of the refrigerator .
Don't plan meals that are too complicated .
Limit yourself to good meat and drink , with bread , salad , corn or potatoes as accessories .
Keep the desserts simple ; ;
fruit does nicely .
Do whatever kitchen work , such as fixing a salad , preparing garlic bread , or making a marinade sauce , ahead of time .
When you start the outdoor performance , you can stay outdoors without a dozen running trips into the kitchen .
( This goes for getting a drink tray ready , and for having a big cooler full of ice on hand long before the party begins .
)
Don't think you have to start with the most expensive equipment in the world .
The simplest grill ( pan type ) or inexpensive hibachi can make you a chef .
You need tongs to handle meat ; ;
long forks for turning potatoes and corn ; ;
heavy foil on hand at all times .
And lots of hot pads ! !
Do keep the grill high enough above the fire so that when fat from meat drips down and flares up , flames cannot reach the meat .
Don't forget to have a supply of Melamine plates , bowls , cups , saucers , and platters for outdoor use .
Made of the world's toughest unbreakable plastic , Melamine dinnerware comes in almost 400 different patterns and dozens of colors .
There is even one set that has `` barbecue '' written on it .
Do without fancy tablecloths .
It's cheaper to buy Wall-Tex and cover your outdoor table .
Or buy half a dozen lengths of oilcloth and change patterns for different kinds of barbecues .
Oilcloth only costs about 79-cents a yard for the very best .
Tougher than plastic , it wears well .
Don't forget -- when you take to the hills or the beach -- that your cooler , which you might have used for wine- or beer-cooling on your terrace or back yard , is indispensable for carrying liquid refreshments .
There are many varieties of coolers and they serve many purposes .
With them , you can carry steaks and hamburgers at refrigerator temperatures , and also get your frozen food for stews and chowders , to the marina or picnic , in A-1 condition .
Do use paper napkins ; ;
lots of them .
Except when you prepare `` do it yourself '' shish kebob or a lobster roast .
Then you'll want terry cloth towels for mopping up .
Don't think barbecue cooking is just sometimes , or seasonal .
It's year-round , and everywhere .
In the winter , hibachi in the kitchen or grill over the logs of the fireplace .
Even use your portable electric or gas grill in the winter , inside .
Summertime supper , outside , is a natural .
You'll find , once your technique is perfected , that you can cook on a boat with a simple Bernz-O-Matic .
Do buy all-purpose mugs or cups .
Get copper or earthenware mugs that keep beer chilled or soup hot .
Be sure to get a few more than you need .
You will discover you keep the sauce for basting meat in one , use six for drinks , serve soup or coffee in another half-dozen -- and need one more to mix the salad dressing .
Don't forget the joys of a meal on the road .
If you travel over the vast U.S.A. you will , no doubt , discover that feeding is an expensive business .
Decide in the beginning to put your barbecue equipment to work .
You can take it with you .
A picnic bag , a grill , a cooler for soft drinks and beer , and for frozen convenience foods .
Eat in a restaurant or motel mornings and evenings ; ;
or just evenings .
Turn off at any one of the marked picnic areas ( gasoline companies have touring service bureaus that issue booklets on national parks to tell you where you have barbecue facilities ) and -- with soft drinks cooled from morning loading up , hamburger , buns , an array of relishes , and fresh fruit -- your lunch is 75% cheaper than at a restaurant , and 100% more fun .
You need a little stove , a coffee pot and a stew pot ; ;
maybe a skillet , a basket of essentials like salt , pepper , plates , forks , knives and a can opener .
As you pull out of your motel or national park home-for-the-night , visit a market and buy just what you need for the next meal .
For 25-cents load up the cooler with ice and keep cool pop in the car .
Simple meat dishes
spice is a fact of life in the U.S.A. .
You only have to think of franks and sausages to know what I mean .
Go a step further and list all the wonderful barbecue basics -- cervelat , salami , Vienna sausages , mettwurst , bratwurst , bockwurst , knackwurst , Bologna , pepperoni , blutwurst -- and you have a long list of easy specialties .
Threaded on a skewer with new boiled potatoes , a bit of green pepper , a fresh white mushroom -- any one of these spiced meats makes a man a cook , and a meal a feast .
Sure , for the most of us , a frankfurter is the favorite .
A story goes that a certain Herr Feuchtwanger of St. Louis , around 1883 served his sausages ( grilled ) and mustard to his fancy customers .
So that his customers should not soil their hands , Feuchtwanger issued white gloves .
Discovery that the gloves frequently left with the customers made the wise peddler of spiced sausage-meat come upon a compromise .
He had a bakery make buns sized to fit his franks .
Years later , franks-in-buns were accepted as the `` first to go '' at the New York Polo Grounds .
The nation's number one picnic treat is the skinless frankfurter -- toasted over a bonfire on the beach or , more sedately , charcoal broiled on a portable grill .
Either way it's hard to beat in flavor as well as ease of preparation .
To make the picnic frank come close to perfection , remember these tips :
-- Score each frankfurter in four or five places about a third of the way through .
This permits the juices to permeate the meat during cooking .
-- Relishes are as vital to the success of the frank as are buns .
Bring along the conventional ones -- catsup , pickle relish , mustard , mayonnaise -- plus a few extras , such as tangy barbecue sauce , chive cream cheese , or horse-radish for the brave ones in the crowd .
-- Using a portable grill permits you to toast the buns , too .
Watch closely while browning them , as it doesn't take long .
-- An unusual flavor can be achieved by marinating the franks in French dressing or a mixture of honey , lemon juice and brown sugar prior to the picnic .
Broil or toast as usual .
Contrary to popular opinion , `` a la mode '' doesn't mean `` with ice cream '' -- it just means , in the latest style .
Here are a couple of the latest , highly styled ways to fix skinless franks in your own back yard ! !
You'll have the neighbor's eyes popping as well as their mouths watering ! !
Jiffy barbecues
1 cup chili sauce 1/3 cup water 1 tablespoon barbecue sauce 2 teaspoons prepared mustard 1/2 pound chipped , spiced ham 6 sandwich buns , heated
.
Combine first 4 ingredients in saucepan ; ;
heat thoroughly .
Add ham ; ;
heat .
Serve on buns .
Makes 6 barbecues .
Hot hibachi franks
You'll never hear `` sayonara '' , the Japanese word for goodbye , from your guests when you give a hibachi party .
The fun of toasting their own sausages over the small Oriental charcoal burners and dipping them in tasty sauces will keep your group busy -- try it and see ! !
Canned cocktail frankfurters
sweet-sour sauce
1 large onion , chopped fine 2 tablespoons salad oil 1 8-oz. can crushed pineapple and 1/2 cup of the juice 1/4 cup brown sugar 2 tablespoons vinegar 1 tablespoon prepared mustard 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce pineapple chunks
.
Mustard cream
2 tablespoons dry mustard Water 1/2 cup heavy cream , whipped Salt Paprika
.
Spear canned cocktail franks with picks .
Also spear pineapple chunks and place in separate bowl .
Make sauces ahead .
Sweet-sour sauce can be kept warm over a second hibachi or chafing dish while charcoal in broiler is reaching glowing coal stage .
Mustard cream , used as alternate dip for franks and pineapple tidbits , tastes best when served at room temperature .
For sweet-sour sauce , cook onion in oil until soft .
Add remaining ingredients and bring to a boil .
Simmer about 10 minutes , and keep warm for serving .
To prepare mustard cream , blend mustard with enough water to make a thin paste .
Fold into whipped cream and add a dash of salt and sprinkling of paprika .
Trim-your-own-franks
A back-yard picnic with grilled frankfurters and a selection of frankfurter trimmings is a fine way to entertain guests this summer .
Be sure to have plenty of frankfurters and buns on hand .
Some tasty frank toppings are chili con carne , Coney Island sauce and savory sauerkraut .
Serve the chili and kraut hot with the franks .
Here are suggestions for the frankfurter trimmings : 1 .
Chili con carne : use canned chili con carne .
2 .
Coney Island sauce : finely chop several onions and add enough catsup to moisten well ; ;
add prepared mustard to suit taste .
3 .
Savory sauerkraut : add several tablespoons of brown sugar to a can of sauerkraut .
Add a few caraway seeds , too , if you'd like .
Barbecued frankfurters
1/2 cup minced celery 1/4 cup minced onion 1/2 cup tomato ketchup 1/2 cup water 1/4 cup vinegar 2 tablespoons brown sugar 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1 tablespoon prepared mustard 1/2 teaspoon salt 8 frankfurters
.
Combine first 9 ingredients in skillet .
Simmer 15 minutes .
Prick frankfurters with fork ; ;
place in sauce .
Cover ; ;
simmer 15 minutes , stirring occasionally , until sauce is of desired consistency .
Serve in frankfurter buns or as a meat dish .
Makes 8 sandwiches or 4 servings .
Pretend ham
Make criss-cross gashes on one side of skinless frankfurters .
Stick 4 or 5 cloves in each frank , ham fashion .
Make a paste of brown sugar and mustard and spread lightly over scored surface .
If desired , sprinkle with 1 teaspoon drained crushed pineapple .
Place on rectangle of foil and pinch edges together tightly .
Roast on grill over coals 15-20 minutes .
Frankfurter twists
Blend 2 cups biscuit mix with 2/3 cup milk to make a soft dough .
Knead on lightly floured board and roll out to form a Af-inch rectangle .
Spread dough with a mixture of 3 tablespoons chili sauce , 1 teaspoon horse-radish and 2 teaspoons mustard .
Cut dough carefully into 12 strips , about 3/4 inch by a foot long .
Twist one strip diagonally around each skinless frankfurter , pinching dough at ends to seal it .
Brush frankfurter twists with about 1/2 cup melted butter and toast slowly over glowing coals until dough is golden brown .
Serves 12 .
Hamburger patties with nuts
1 pound ground beef 2 teaspoons grated onion Dash of pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup chopped walnuts 1/4 cup ice cold bourbon
.
Combine ingredients ; ;
form into patties and barbecue 5 minutes on each side .
Note :
Directions are written for those who have had previous experience in making pottery .
Instructions for preparing clay , drying , glazing and firing are not given .
Equipment :
Basic pottery studio equipment .
Wooden butter molds and cookie presses .
Materials :
Ceramic modeling clay : red , white or buff .
Stoneware clay for tiles .
Glazes , one-stroke ceramic colors , stains , cones as indicated in the individual instructions .
General directions :
Use well-wedged clay , free of air bubbles and pliable enough to bend without cracking .
Clean wooden molds and presses thoroughly ; ;
they must be free of oil , wax and dust .
Pressing designs :
The size of wooden mold will determine the amount of clay needed .
Roll clay to thickness indicated in individual instructions .
Whenever possible , use the wooden mold as a pattern for cutting clay .
When mold has more than one design cavity , make individual paper patterns .
Place mold or paper pattern on rolled clay and cut clay by holding knife in vertical position ( cut more pieces than required for project to make allowance for defects ; ;
experiment with defects for decoration techniques of glazes and colors ) .
Place the cut clay piece loosely over the carved cavity design side of wooden mold .
To obtain clear impression of mold , press clay gently but firmly into mold cavity , starting at center and working to outer edges .
Trim excess clay away from outer edges .
Check thickness of clay and build up thin areas by moistening surface with a little water and adding small pieces of clay .
Be sure to press the additional clay firmly into place without locking in air bubbles .
Allow project to stand for about five minutes ( if wooden press mold is a good antique , do not leave clay in too long as the dampness may cause mold to crack ) .
To release clay from mold , place hands in a cupped position around project ; ;
gently lift the edge on far side , then continue to release edge completely around mold .
Slight tapping on the underside of mold will help release the clay , but too much agitation will cause the clay to become soft and will interfere with removal of clay from mold .
Place a piece of plaster wall board or plaster bat on clay and reverse bat , clay and mold in one action .
This will prevent the clay from twisting or bending , causing warping when fired .
Place project on table and carefully lift the mold off .
Study surface of clay for defects or desired corrections .
If clay is slightly out of shape , square straight sides with guide sticks or rulers pressed against opposite sides , or smooth round pieces with damp fingers .
If the background of design is too smooth , or you wish to create a wood-grained effect , it may be added at this time with a dull tool such as the handle of a fine paintbrush .
Make slight , smooth grooves rather than cuts for the texture ( cuts could cause air pockets under the glaze creating pinholes or craters in the glaze during firing ) .
Leave the clay on plaster board to dry slowly , covered lightly with a loose piece of plastic or cloth to prevent warping .
Rectangular tiles
( opposite page , right top ) : Stoneware clay was used .
Clay was rolled to 1/4'' '' thickness .
Back of clay scored or roughened for proper gripping surface .
No bisque firing .
Glazed with two coats of Creek-Turn white stoneware glaze ( no glaze on sides or bottom ) .
Decorated on unfired glaze with one coat of one-stroke ceramic colors ; ;
raised details of designs were colored in shades of yellow-green , blue-green , brown and pink .
Tiles were fired once to cone 05 .
Round plaque
( opposite page , bottom ) : White clay was used , rolled to 1/4'' '' thickness .
Bisque fired to cone 05 .
Stained with Jacquelyn's ceramic unfired stain , polished , following manufacturer's directions .
Opaque cantaloupe and transparent wood brown were used .
No further firing .
Paperweight
( opposite page , top left ) : Red clay was used , rolled 1/2'' '' thick .
Mold was used as pattern and clay cut by holding knife at about 45-degree angle , to form an undercut , making base smaller than the pattern top .
While clay is still pressed in mold , press three equally spaced holes 1/4'' '' deep , using pencil eraser , in bottom of clay to allow for proper drying and firing .
Paperweight may be personalized on back while clay is leather hard .
Bisque fired to cone 05 .
Unglazed .
Jars with lids
( opposite page , top left ) : Remove wooden design head from bowl of butter mold .
Fill small hole in bowl with clay .
Make paper patterns for sections of jar and lid ( see Fig. 1 , opposite page ) .
Measurements for rectangular pattern piece A are obtained by measuring inside circumference and depth of butter mold bowl .
Pattern for circular base piece B is diameter of Aj .
Use wooden design head of mold for pattern C ; ;
pattern D for lid fits over top diameter of Aj .
Pattern for inner lid piece E fits inside Aj .
Jars are assembled in bowl of butter mold .
Use white or buff clay , rolled to 3/16'' '' thickness .
Place patterns on rolled clay and cut around them with knife in vertical position .
Place clay pieces on wall board .
To assemble jar , put paper pattern B for base in bottom of mold and clay disk B on top .
Line sides of mold with paper pattern Aj .
Bevel and score ends of clay piece A so that they overlap about 1/2'' '' and make even thickness .
Place clay piece A inside ; ;
use slip to join overlapped ends together .
Join B to bottom of A , scoring and reinforcing with clay coil .
Trim excess clay from around lip of mold and set aside while assembling lid .
To assemble lid , press clay piece C in cavity of wooden design head .
Press clay into mold as instructed in General Directions .
Score plain side of C and leave in mold .
Score one side of disk D , join to C ; ;
score other side of D and one side of disk E and join as before .
While assembled lid is still on design head , gently but firmly press it on plaster board .
If design head has a deep cavity , clay lid will be quite thick at this point ; ;
press eraser of pencil gently 1/4'' '' deep into deep clay to allow vent for proper drying and firing .
Check fit of lid on jar ; ;
if inner lid is too big , trim to fit , allowing room for thickness of glaze .
Remove lid from head of mold .
Remove jar from mold .
Place jar on plaster board with lid in place to dry slowly .
Bisque fire to cone 08 with lid on jar .
For an antique effect on jars , brush Creek-Turn brown toner on bisque ware and sponge it off .
Glaze with two coats of clear or transparent matt glaze .
The large jar was brushed with Creek-Turn green toner and sponged off .
Glaze with two coats of matt glazes in turquoise with touches of blossom pink on lid .
When dry they were fired to cone 06-05 .
Little folks set :
( Made from modern wooden molds Af .
) Roll white clay to 3/16'' '' thickness .
Salt and pepper :
Use mold to cut four side pieces .
For top and bottom pieces , use short end of mold as measurement guide .
Press the side pieces of clay into cavity of mold .
Trim excess clay from rim of mold .
Cut beveled edge on the long sides of clay at a 45-degree angle to miter corners .
Score beveled edges and remove pieces from mold ; ;
place design-side up on plaster board .
Make all four sides .
Cut clay top and base pieces ; ;
place on plaster board .
Allow all pieces to become leather hard before constructing shaker .
To assemble :
Construct sides , bottom and top as for box , using slip on scored edges and coils of clay to reinforce seams .
Join the four sides together first , then add the base ; ;
add top last .
Use water on finger to smooth seams and edges .
Turn shaker upside down .
Recess base slightly to allow room for stopper .
Cut hole in base for cork stopper .
Add holes in top , forming `` S '' for salt and `` P '' for pepper .
Set aside to dry thoroughly .
Sugar and creamer :
Cut a strip of clay for sides long enough and wide enough for three impressions of mold design .
Press clay into cavity of one mold three times ; ;
bevel overlapping ends for splice joint , score beveled edges .
Form clay strip into a cylinder ; ;
use slip to join scored ends .
Place cylinder on a disk of clay slightly larger than cylinder .
Score bottom edge of cylinder and join to disk with slip .
Trim away excess clay ; ;
reinforce seam with a coil of clay .
This will form the sugar bowl .
Make creamer the same .
Handle for creamer is a strip of clay 1/2'' '' wide and 3-1/2'' '' long .
To add handle , place a wooden dowel against the inside wall of creamer .
Score outside of container where handle ends will be joined .
Bend handle ; ;
press scored handle ends firmly in place using dowel to reinforce container while pressing ; ;
use slip to join .
To form spout , between two designs , dampen area slightly and gently push clay outward .
Make lid for sugar bowl the same as jar lids , omitting design disk .
Cut a notch in lid for spoon handle if desired .
Set aside to dry with lid on sugar bowl .
Vases :
Make same as salt and pepper shakers , leaving off top pieces .
Vases may be made into candles by filling with melted wax and a wick .
Napkin holder :
Cut a piece of clay for base and two for sides each about Af ( long enough for three impressions of mold ) .
Press the two sides into cavity of one mold three times .
Put cut pieces on plaster board to dry to firm leather-hard state .
Score side edges of base ; ;
join sides and base with slip and reinforce with coil .
A cardboard pattern cut to fit inside holder will help to prevent warping .
Place pattern inside holder ; ;
use three strips of clay to hold in place ( see Fig. 2 , page 71 ) .
Do not use wood as it will not shrink with the clay and would cause breakage .
Let all projects dry slowly for several days .
Clean greenware .
Bisque fire to cone 08 .
Inside of pieces was glazed with three coats of Creek-Turn bottle green antique glaze .
Outside was finished with Creek-Turn brown toner brushed on and sponged off to give antique finish .
Fired to cone 06-05 .
Changing colors
to change from one color yarn to another :
When changing from one color to another , whether working on right or wrong side , pick up the new strand from underneath dropped strand .
Photograph shows the wrong side of work with light strand being picked up under dark strand in position to be purled .
To measure work :
Spread article on flat surface to required width before measuring length at center .
Measuring armhole
to measure armhole :
Mark row on which first stitches have been bound off for armhole by drawing a contrasting colored thread through it .
Place work on a flat surface and smooth out .
Measure straight up from marked row .
See illustration .
To insert markers :
When directions read `` sl a marker on needle '' , put a small safety pin , paper clip , or commercial ring marker on needle .
In working , always slip marker from one needle to another .
To mark a row or stitch , tie contrasting thread around end of row or stitch to be marked .
Backstitching seam
to sew seams with backstitch :
Most seams are sewn with backstitch , especially on curved , slanted or loose edges .
Pin right sides of pieces together , keeping edges even and matching rows or patterns .
Thread matching yarn in tapestry needle .
Run end of yarn through several stitches along edge to secure ; ;
backstitch pieces together close to edge .
Do not draw yarn too tight .
See illustration .
To sew in sleeves :
Place sleeve seam at center underarm and center of sleeve cap at shoulder seam .
Ease in any extra fullness evenly around .
Backstitch seam .
Weaving seam
to weave seams together :
Straight vertical edges , such as those at the back seam of a sock , can be woven together invisibly .
Thread matching yarn in tapestry needle .
Hold edges together , right side up .
Hotei is 23 feet long with an 8-1/2-foot beam and every inch a family boat .
Menfolk can ride in the forward cockpit where the helmsman has a clear view .
Youngsters can sleep or amuse themselves safely in the large cabin which has 5-foot 11-inch headroom , bunks for three , galley and marine toilet .
The gals can sun themselves in the roomy aft cockpit .
All are well distributed , not crowded together near the stern .
And with passenger weight shifted forward , Hotei levels off for speed under power of a Merc 800 .
The 80-hp motor drives her at 25 mph with six aboard ! !
With only two aboard , Hotei does better than 27 mph -- and she gives a comfortable ride at this speed even in a three-foot chop .
She also banks into a turn like a fine runabout -- not digging in on the outside to throw passengers all over the boat like many a small cabin cruiser .
Nor is she a wet boat .
We've been out in five-foot waves and stayed dry .
A lot of thought went into storage space construction .
There's a large compartment in the forward cockpit for charts and other items .
The cabin has several shelves for small items and storage under the bunks for water skiis , life jackets , etc. .
The aft cockpit has a Af storage bin over six feet long that doubles as a seat .
On each side of the motor well there's storage for battery , bumpers , line and spare props with six-gallon gas tanks below .
The well itself is designed to take two Merc 800's or 500's if you wish and there's room for a 25-gallon long-cruise gas tank below it .
Needless to say , you can't build Hotei in a couple of weeks .
Our building time was slightly over 400 hours -- but the total cost for the hull with Fiberglas bottom , sink , head and hardware was under $800 .
A comparable manufactured boat would cost close to $3,000 .
Consider what you have to earn to be able to spend the $3,000 and your building time is well worth it .
A Gator trailer , Model 565 , is used to transport the boat to the waterways .
This piece of equipment costs a little over $600 but it will save you that in mooring and hauling fees in a few years .
All framing in Hotei is one-inch mahogany which , in the dressed state you buy it , is about the 13/16-inch thickness specified in the drawings .
Therefore , the lumber is bought in planks and ripped to size for battens , etc. , on a table saw .
Besides flathead bronze screws , silicon bronze Stronghold nails ( made by Independent Nail & Packing Co. , Bridgewater , Mass. ) are used extensively in assembly and Weldwood resorcinol glue is used in all the joints .
Construction follows a thorough study of the drawings .
Start by laying out the six frames and the transom on a level floor .
Draw each outline in a different-color chalk , one on top of the other .
In this way you will be able to detect any obvious mistakes .
The transom frame is made first with the joints lapped , glued and fastened with one-inch , No. 12 Stronghold nails .
After notching it for the keelson , chines and battens , the half-inch plywood transom is secured to it with glue and the same type nails .
All frames are butted at the joints and 3/8-inch plywood gussets are glued and nailed on each side of each joint , again using the one-inch , No. 12 nails .
The frames are notched only for the keelson and the chines .
If notched for the battens , they would require more work , be weakened and limber holes would have to be bored so that bilge water could flow through .
Nowhere in the boat do the frames come in contact with the plywood planking .
The jig is erected after the frames and transom are complete .
This is an important step because any misalignment would cause progressively worse misalignment in the hull as you advance in construction .
Be sure all members are parallel , vertical and level as required .
After the frames and transom are set up on the jig and temporarily braced , a piece of three-inch-wide mahogany ( only widths will be given since the 13/16-inch thickness is used throughout ) is butted between frames one and two below the line of the keelson .
The frames are glued and screwed to this piece .
The joints are also reinforced on each side with small blocks set in resin-saturated Fiberglas cloth and nailed .
It is over this piece that the laminated stem and keelson are spliced .
The keelson , made of two three-inch widths , is next installed .
The first piece is glued and screwed to the frames and transom and the piece butted between frames one and two .
The second piece is in turn glued and screwed to the first .
Note , however , that it is six inches shorter at the forward end .
One-inch , No. 10 screws are used in both cases .
A stem jig is next cut to the proper shape and temporarily fastened to frame one .
The stem is laminated from four pieces .
Take two three-inch-wide pieces and rip them down the center of the thickness to make the four .
Then spread a generous amount of glue on the four pieces and bend them into place on the jig .
The first two pieces butt against the inner member of the keelson and are glued and screwed to the brace between the first two frames .
The second two pieces lap over the inner member of the keelson and butt against the outer member .
They're glued and screwed to the inner member of the keelson .
A number of C clamps hold the pieces together on the jig until the glue sets .
All bottom battens are two inches wide .
The side ones are a half-inch narrower .
The battens are carefully fastened in place after some necessary fairing on all frames .
Glue and 1-1/2-inch , No. 10 screws are used .
Placement is important because the rear seat , bunks and front jump seats rest on or are fastened to many of the side battens .
With the exception of two battens , all run to the stem where they are glued and screwed after careful beveling .
The chines go in the same way except that they are made of two pieces of two-inch wood for strength and easier bending .
Fairing is always a tedious job but the work can be cut down considerably with a Skill planer and a simple jig .
I clamped a 30-inch piece of aluminum to the base of the planer with a pair of Sure Grips .
The aluminum , flush against the battens , acted as a fairing stick and enabled me to plane the chines and keelson to the proper bevels easily .
If you don't own a planer and don't want to buy one , it's well worth renting .
The planking is five-ply , 3/8-inch-thick Weldwood Royal Marine plywood .
This can be obtained in 42-inch widths 24 feet long .
The 42-inch width leaves very little waste .
Four pieces are used .
Plank the sides first , using glue and one-inch , No. 12 Stronghold nails at all battens , the stem and the transom .
Another person inside with a weight against each batten will help in the fastening .
The best procedure is to have a few friends hold the planking in place while you mark it off .
Then trim the excess .
I used a Homemaster Routo-Jig made by Porter Cable for this job .
It's good for cutting all the planking because it cuts with a bit-like blade at high rpm and does not chatter the plywood like a saber saw .
When cut , the planking is clamped in place for a final and careful trimming .
Then it is marked on the inside where it comes in contact with the transom , frames , keelson and all the battens .
It may then be pre-drilled for the fastenings .
The next step is to remove it and spread glue where it has been marked at the contact points .
Then it is replaced and fastened .
The bottom planking is applied in the same manner .
After planking , the bottom gets a layer of Fiberglas .
The spray rails are first glued on the outside and fastened from the inside with screws .
Then the chines are rounded off and the bottom is rough-sanded in preparation .
Since the sides are also covered up to the spray rails , they are also rough-sanded in that area .
The cloth is laid on one half of the bottom at a time .
A 50-inch width is used on each side and it laps the keel line by about three inches .
Lay the cloth in place and trim it to size .
Then remove it and give the whole bottom a coat of resin .
When the resin has hardened , mix up another batch with a pigment added if you wish .
I used bright red , mixing the pigment in thoroughly before adding the hardener .
Using a cheap brush , coat one side of the bottom with the resin and then apply the cloth .
When the cloth is smooth , apply another coat of resin , spreading it with a paint roller .
Be sure it is well saturated and then allow it to harden .
When the whole bottom has hardened , use a disk sander to feather the edges of the cloth at the keel line and near the spray rail .
Then lay a three-inch-wide strip of cloth along the keel line from the transom to the point of the stem .
Before the resin has hardened , screw a one-inch mahogany keel strip along the centerline .
This protects the bottom in beaching .
Fiberglas materials are available from Glass Plastic Supply Co. , 1605 W. Elizabeth Ave. , Linden , N. J. .
They will also supply literature on application .
The hull is now turned over ( with the help of about seven friends ) and placed in a level , well-braced position .
I set it on the Gator trailer .
I laid three layers of glass cloth on the inside of the stem , also installing a bow eye at this time .
For added strength , I also fastened a small block on each side of every frame and batten joint .
Again , these blocks were set in resin-saturated glass cloth and nailed .
After trimming off the excess on the frames and transom which was used to fasten them to the jig at a working height , the top of the side planking is installed .
This is made up of scraps left over from the sides and bottom .
These flaring parts really help to keep the boat dry .
When they're on , the top edges are planed even with the sheer batten .
The sides of the motor well run from the bottom battens to the top and from frame six to the transom , forming a real strong transom brace .
Note another piece of wood six inches wide is fastened to the transom between these pieces .
The decking is quarter-inch mahogany marine plywood .
All the flooring and the storage bin is half-inch exterior fir plywood .
Most floor battens are glued and screwed to the flooring .
The exception is where the flooring butts .
These battens are glued and screwed to the frames .
With all deck battens in place , the bilge is cleaned and painted up to the floor line .
Use one coat of Firzite and one coat of marine paint .
Bottoms of the floorboards are also painted and the flooring is then screwed in place .
After the decking is on , the cabin sides are installed .
They're followed by the front and rear bulkheads as illustrated .
The windshield glass is shatterproof and Plexiglas is used in the cabin .
Inside , bunks are framed up and installed as indicated .
A head is a handy thing to have and I installed one under a removable section of the port bunk .
The sink in the hinged panel above the bunk drains into the head and a five-gallon water tank is mounted on the bulkhead above the sink .
For padding the seats and bunks , I used Ensolite , Type Aj .
Lightweight , non-absorbent , fire resistant and dimensionally stable , it is easily bonded to the wood with contact cement .
Available in Af sheets , it costs about a dollar a square foot .
You can build this vacation cottage yourself .
It is a full scale , small , but efficient house that can become a year 'round retreat complete in every detail .
Because of the unique design by the architect Egils Hermanovski , you can build most of it in your own home workshop in your spare time .
Most of it is panelized and utilizes standard materials , and requires the use of only simple tools .
On the following pages and in the following issues we take you every step of the way to your vacation cottage , from choosing the proper site to applying the final trim .
In recognition of the growing trend for second homes , or vacation cottages , we have designed this one specifically with the family handyman in mind .
It is a big project , not to be taken lightly .
But each step has been broken down into easy stages , utilizing standard materials and simple tools , well within the capabilities of the handyman .
The theory
The idea behind our design is modular units , or panelization .
Everything possible has been scaled to standard sizes and measurements of materials .
Wall panels and structural timbers are standard as are windows and doors , making for a minimum of cutting .
We have developed an ingenious method of interlocking these so that you can make the major part of your house in your own workshop , panel by panel , according to plan .
Thus , when you have prepared your foundation and laid the floor , these can be trucked to the site and erected with a small crew of friends in a weekend .
The roof timbers are precut and the panels standard so that the house can be completely enclosed in a matter of three or four days .
Then you can do the finishing touches at your leisure .
A warning
Due to the fact that building codes and regulations vary so much throughout the country , the first thing to do is to find out what , if any , they are .
Close to a large city they might even specify the size of the nails used ; ;
in a remote section there might be no restrictions at all .
This can usually be found out at the nearest town hall .
At the same time check the electrical , plumbing , and sanitary requirements , as well as possible zoning regulations .
Whether electricity and public water and sewers are available or not , check the local customs in the use of bottled or L-P gas ( we give you alternatives later on ) .
Be sure that this information is reasonably official and not just an unfounded opinion .
If there are any major restrictions , they usually can be obtained in printed form .
Where a building permit is required , find out what you must present when applying for one .
In many cases , you must file a complete set of plans with the local building inspector .
These will be available at cost from our Plans Department .
The site
Some general things to look for in a site , if you haven't already bought one , are accessibility , water drainage , and orientation .
How are the roads , and how will they stand up ? ?
Is there evidence of wash-outs on the property ; ;
swampy areas or intermittent springs ? ?
A visit in the early spring after a thaw will be very informative .
Note where the sun rises and sets , and ask which direction the prevailing winds and storms come from .
Will the view be something you can live with ? ?
Don't worry too much about rocky or sloping terrain ; ;
we will take up alternative foundations later on .
The materials
With this first issue we give you a list of the materials needed to build the basic ( AjA version ) and the expandable ( AjB version ) .
This will be for the shell of the house only ( roof , walls , and floor ) , and does not include the carport or balcony .
This will permit you to get a rough estimate of how much the materials for the shell will cost .
Bear in mind that this does not include interior panels for partitions , fancy flooring , appliances and fixtures , electrical wiring , and plumbing , all of which will be taken up in detail in later issues .
The wall panels are constructed of a framework of standard Af and Af of a good grade , free from structural faults .
They should be as straight as possible , as this will effect their ability to mesh properly when the walls are erected .
The outside surface of the solid units shall be of an exterior grade of panel board such as plywood , plastic coated panel board , high density particle board , asbestos-cement board , or any other product locally obtainable upon recommendation of your building supply dealer .
The inner panels do not have to be weatherproof , and the choice will depend on the quality of finish desired .
All panel board comes in standard Af foot size .
It is recommended that panels be both glued as well as nailed to the frame .
The fixed window panels with louvers should have a good grade of 1/8-inch double-strength glass set in a mastic glazing compound .
The louvers are constructed as shown in the detail , with a drop door for ventilation .
There are standard sliding glass windows in wood or aluminum frames for those panels requiring them .
The door panels are designed to accommodate standard doors which should be of exterior grade .
The filler panels for the gable ends are cut from full Af sheets as shown , leaving no wastage .
The battens covering the joints are of Af stock and are applied after the walls are erected .
All nails should be rustproof , and aluminum is highly recommended .
Note : If 1/2-inch panel board is used inside and out , or 5/8-inch one side and 3/8-inch the other , and 1/8-inch glass is used , stock lumber in Af , Af , and Af can be used in making the glass panels .
Other thicknesses may necessitate ripping a special size lumber for the glass trim .
In any case , there is no special milling or rabbeting required for the panels .
With modern techniques of woodworking and the multitude of cutting tools , fixtures , and attachments available , the drill press has become a basic home workshop tool .
The drill press consists of a vertical shaft ( spindle ) which is tapered or threaded on one end to hold a drill chuck , a tubular housing ( quill ) in which the spindle is mounted , a head in which the quill is mounted , a feed lever which moves the quill up or down , a power source , and a movable table upon which the work is placed .
There is often a means of locking the quill and , on larger presses , the table can be tilted .
The size of the press is usually expressed in terms of chuck capacity ( the maximum diameter tool shank it will hold ) or distance between the spindle center and the column .
A press with an 11 inch capacity lets you drill to the center of a 22 inch board or circle .
A new radial drill press with a 16 inch capacity has a tilting head that allows drilling to be done at any angle .
The head is mounted on a horizontal arm that swivels on the supporting column to position the drill bit instead of the work .
Set-up and maintenance
The drill press should be leveled and , depending on whether it is a bench or floor model , bolted securely to a sturdy bench or stand or screwed to the floor with lag or expansion screws .
This will reduce vibration and increase accuracy .
A coat of paste wax or a rubdown with a piece of wax paper will protect the polished surface of the table ; ;
wiping with a slightly oiled cloth will discourage rusting of the column and quill .
Presses not fitted with sealed spindle bearings will need a drop of oil now and then in the lubrication holes in the quill .
The rest of the press should be kept clean by dusting with a clean rag or brush .
Be careful to keep the drive belt free of oil and grease .
Belt tension is adjusted by manipulation of two locking bolts and a movable motor mount .
Keep the belt just tight enough so the pulleys won't slip when pulled by hand ; ;
excess tension will only cause undue wear on the motor and spindle bearings .
Most drill presses have a quill return spring that raises the spindle automatically when the feed lever is released and holds the quill in the raised position .
The return spring tension may be adjusted to suit individual requirements by gripping the spring housing with a pair of pliers ( to prevent the spring from unwinding when it is released ) , loosening the lock nut or screw , and rotating the housing until the desired tension is achieved .
Turning the housing clockwise will reduce tension , counter-clockwise will increase it .
Don't lose the chuck key
.
Some manufacturers have had the foresight to provide a socket for the chuck key ; ;
otherwise , you'll have to spend a few minutes to either attach a suitable spring clip somewhere on the press head or fit the key to a length of light chain and fasten to the bottom of the motor mount so that the key is out of the way when not in use .
Feeds and speeds
Drill speeds are important if you want a good job .
Each cutting tool will operate best at a given speed , depending on the material worked .
On most drill presses , it is impossible to get the exact speed , but you can come close by adjusting the drive belt on the step-cone pulleys .
You will find a chart giving the various speed ratios available with your particular drill press somewhere in the instruction booklet that came with the tool .
See the table on page 34 for exact recommended speeds .
Generally , the larger the tool and the harder the material , the slower the speed .
Feed pressure is also of major importance .
Too much pressure will force the tool beyond its cutting capacity and result in rough cuts and jammed or broken tools .
Too light a feed , particularly with metal or other hard material , causes overheating of the tool and burning of the cutting edge .
The best results will be obtained by matching the correct speed with a steady feed pressure that lets the tool cut easily at an even rate .
Common drilling tools
There are numerous types and styles of tools to drill holes .
The most common are the twist drill , the solid center shaft with interchangeable cutting blades , the double spur bit , and the power wood bit .
All will do a good job if sharp , but the twist drills don't cut quite as smoothly as the others , since they do not have the outlining spurs that sever the fibers before actual boring starts .
The adjustable fly cutter is very useful for cutting large diameter holes and can be used to cut exact-size discs by reversing the cutter blade .
Since fly cutters are one sided and not balanced , they should be used at the slowest speed available , and fed very slowly to avoid binding .
Fly cutters can fool you into putting your hand too close to the tool , so if you want to avoid nicked fingers , keep your hands well out of the way .
Simple hole drilling operations
When drilling all the way through a workpiece , always place a piece of scrap wood underneath .
This will not only protect the work table , but also assure a clean breakthrough .
Another method of assuring a clean hole is to first drill a small pilot hole all the way through , then drill half way with the dimensional bit , turn the piece over , and finish from the other side .
In soft woods with pronounced grain , there is sometimes a tendency for the hole to wander , due to the varying hardness of the wood .
In this case , drilling a small pilot hole or clamping the work will do much to improve accuracy .
When a hole is to be bored to a predetermined depth , mark the depth on the side of the stock , then run the bit down so that it is even with the mark .
The depth gauge rod can now be set , and any number of holes bored to exact and identical depth .
The old-time bridges over the Merrimac River in Massachusetts are of unusual interest in many respects .
For their length , their types of construction , their picturesque settings , and their literary associations , they should be known and remembered .
In this sequence I shall write about them in the order of their erection .
The first bridge known to have been covered wholly or in part , -- and perhaps the most interesting one , connected Newbury ( now Newburyport ) with Salisbury Point .
Its building was first proposed in 1791 , when a group of citizens , mostly Newburyport men , petitioned the General Court for an act of incorporation .
This document began : `` No. 1 Newbury Port , may 30th , 1791
`` Whereas , a Bridge over Merrimack River , from the Land of Hon'ble Jonathan Greenleaf , Esquire , in Newbery , to Deer Island , and from said Island to Salisbury , would be of very extensive utility , by affording a safe Conveyance to Carriages , Teams and Travellers at all seasons of the year , and at all Times of Tide .
`` We , the Subscribers , do agree , that as soon as a convenient Number of Persons have subscribed to this , or a similar Writing , We will present a petition to the Hon'ble General Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts , praying for an Act incorporating into a Body politic the subscribers to such Writing with Liberty to build such a Bridge , and a Right to demand a Toll equal to that received at Malden Bridge , and on like Terms , and if such an Act shall be obtained , then we severally agree each with the others , that we will hold in the said Bridge the several shares set against our respective Names , the whole into two hundred shares being divided , and that we will pay such sums of Money at such Times and in such Manners , as by the said proposed Corporation , shall be directed and required '' .
This paper was signed by forty-five persons , subscribing a total of two hundred shares .
A month later the General Court served notice to the town of Newbury that the bridge was to be built .
The matter was considered and reconsidered , and finally opposed , but in spite of many objections , the Court granted a charter on January 9 , 1792 .
On November 26 of that year the bridge was completed and opened .
Timothy Palmer , who invented and later patented the arch type of construction for wooden bridges , was the genius who planned and supervised the building of the Essex , or `` Deer Island '' bridge although the actual work was carried out under the direction of William Coombs , who received $300 as recompense .
This two-part bridge is best described by Rev. Timothy Dwight , president of Yale College , in his `` Travels In New-England And New-York '' , published in New Haven in 1821 .
He says of it :
`` It consists of two divisions , separated by an island at a small distance from the southern shore .
The division between the island and this shore , consists principally of an arch ; ;
whose chord is one hundred and sixty feet , and whose vortex is forty feet ( it was actually 37 feet ) above the high-water mark .
In appearance and construction it resembles the Pascataqua bridge .
The whole length of Essex bridge is one thousand and thirty feet and its breadth thirty-four .
I have already mentioned that Mr. Timothy Palmer of Newburyport was the inventor of the arched bridges in this country .
As Mr. Palmer was educated to house-building only , and had never seen a structure of this nature ; ;
he certainly deserves not a little credit for the invention '' .
It is hardly necessary to remind students of covered bridges that Timothy Palmer was born in 1751 in nearby Rowley ; ;
that he moved with his parents to West Boxford when he was sixteen years old ; ;
and was there apprenticed to a builder and architect , Moody Spofford .
It was indeed a remarkable feat that a man who had had no experience of bridge building should have applied the principle of the arch , which appears in his famous bridges at Portsmouth , Haverhill , and Philadelphia .
The Essex Merrimack Bridge when first built was not covered .
As far as we know , no American bridge had been thus protected in 1792 .
Richard S. Allen is the authority for the statement that the northern section was probably roofed by 1810 .
Its original appearance is shown in an engraving published in the `` Massachusetts Magazine '' in May 1793 , which is reproduced herewith ( Fig. 1 ) .
A brief description accompanying the picture says that the bridge contained more than 6000 tons of timber .
Between the abutments on the Newbury shore and the south bank of Deer Island there was one span or arch measuring 160 feet ; ;
between the north shore of Deer Island and the Salisbury side there was an arch of 113 feet and a series of piers with a draw forty feet long .
A dinner and celebration in honor of this piece of engineering took place July 4 , 1793 , in a tavern erected by the corporation on the island .
It is said that the eccentric Timothy Dexter , who was one of the first share-holders , stood on the table and made a speech worthy of the occasion .
The `` Essex Journal '' says that he `` delivered an oration on the bridge , which for elegance of style , propriety of speech or force of argument , was truly Ciceronian '' .
The reporter must have written this with tongue in cheek , because Dexter's oration could hardly be understood ; ;
and , although he later explained that he was talking French , it seems rather more likely that he had succumbed to the joys of the evening .
The north portion of the Essex bridge was well worth the cost of construction , although it proved to be twice what was estimated in the beginning .
It stood in its original form until 1882 .
The southern half , however , on account of its underbracing , was considered by boat owners a menace to navigation .
In 1810 it was torn down and replaced by a chain suspension bridge .
This was built by John Templeman from plans submitted by James Finley of Fayette County , Pennsylvania .
Timothy Palmer had general supervision of the work .
An advertisement in the `` Newburyport Herald '' , December 21 , 1810 , shows Palmer in a new light as an expert on chain bridges .
It reads : `` chain bridges
`` .
Information is hereby given that Mr. Timothy Palmer of Newburyport , Mass. has agreed to take charge of the concerns of the Patentees of the Chain Bridge , in the states of Massachusetts , New Hampshire , Vermont , Rhode Island , and Connecticut , so far as relates to the sale of Patent rights and the construction of Chain Bridges .
`` Mr. Palmer will attend to any applications relating to bridges and if desired will view the proposed site , and lay out and superintend the work , or recommend a suitable person to execute it .
John Templeman
`` Approved , Timothy Palmer ''
.
This chain bridge proved less durable than the wooden arch on the Salisbury end .
It fell , February 6 , 1827 , carrying with it a horse and wagon , two men and four oxen .
The horse and men were saved , but the oxen drowned .
In spite of this catastrophe , the bridge was rebuilt on the same plan and opened again on July 17 , 1827 .
This second chain bridge was 570 feet long , had two thirty-foot towers and a draw , and a double roadway .
The Essex bridge was a toll crossing until 1868 , when the County Commissioners laid out all the Merrimack bridges as highways .
Sturdy and strong after more than a century of continuous use , the old covered , wooden bridge that spans the Tygartis Valley River at Philippi will have a distinctive part in the week-long observance of the first land battle of the Civil War at its home site , May 28th to June 3rd .
Colonel Frederick W. Lander , impersonated , will again make his break-neck ride down the steep declivity of Talbott's ( now College ) Hill and thunder across the bridge to join Colonel Benjamin F. Kelley's ( West ) Virginia Infantry , then swarming through the streets in pursuit of the retreating Confederates .
He was closely followed by the Ohio and Indiana troops -- thus the old bridge has another distinction ; ;
that of being the first such structure secured by force of arms in the war of the '60s .
The bridge has survived the natural hazards of the elements , war , fire , and floods , as well as injuries incident to heavy traffic , for more than a hundred years .
Twice during the Civil War it was saved from destruction by the opposing armies by the pleas and prayers of a local minister .
It still stands as a monument to the engineering skills of the last century and still serves in the gasoline age to carry heavy traffic on U.S. Route 250 -- the old Beverly and Fairmont Turnpike .
It is one of the very few , if not the only surviving bridge of its type to serve a main artery of the U.S. highway system , thus it is far more than a relic of the horse and buggy days .
This covered , wooden bridge is so closely identified with the first action in the early morning of June 3 , 1861 , and with subsequent troop movements of both armies in the Philippi area that it has become a part and parcel of the war story .
So frequently have pictures of the bridge appeared in books and in national publications that it vies with the old John Brown Fort at Harpers Ferry as the two nationally best known structures in West Virginia .
Completed and opened for traffic in 1852 , the bridge was designed and built by Lemuel Chenoweth and his brother , Eli , of Beverly .
The Chenoweth brothers were experienced bridge builders , and against the competition of other , and better known , bridge designers and builders they had constructed nine of the covered , wooden bridges on the Parkersburg and Staunton Turnpike a dozen years before , as well as many other bridges for several counties .
The Philippi bridge , however , was the Chenoweth master piece , with its 139-foot , dual lane , span -- and it stands today as a monument to its builders .
Never rebuilt , the bridge was strengtened in 1938 by two extra piers , a concrete floor , and a walk-way along the upper side in order to care for modern traffic .
During the war it was in constant use by the wagon trains transporting supplies from the railhead at Grafton to the troops operating in the interior .
Union soldiers at times used it for sleeping quarters to escape from the rain or other inclement weather , and some of them left momentoes of their stay by carving their names and small tokens on its walls and beams .
But what the elements could not do was seriously threatened when Brigadier General William E. ( Grumble ) Jones reached Philippi while on the famous Jones-Imboden raid in May , 1863 .
General Jones was fresh from a long series of bridge burnings , including the long bridge at Fairmont , and , after seeing a great drove of horses and cattle he had collected safely across the bridge , he sent his men to work piling combustibles in and around it .
Reverend Joshual Corder , a Baptist minister , gathered a few citizens of Southern sympathies , to call on Jones and plead with him to spare the structure ; ;
he reasoned and argued , pointing out that Jones or other Confederate commanders would need it should troops pass that way in retreat .
Jones relented , he did not order his men to apply the torch -- the drove of livestock was driven up the valley , via Beverly , and across the mountains to feed and serve the Confederate army , while Jones and his raiders turned toward Buckhannon to join forces with Imboden .
Again Reverend Corder saved the bridge when Union soldiers planned to destroy it , after filling its two lanes with hay and straw -- but for what reason is not recorded nor remembered , certainly not because of pressure from an opposing Confederate force .
On the second occasion it took prayers as well as reason to dissuade the soldiers from their purpose .
Centering around this historic old structure , a group of public-spirited Barbour County citizens have organized and planned a week-long series of events , beginning on May 28th and continuing through June 3rd , to observe most appropriately the centennial of the first land engagement of the Civil War at Philippi .
It is a good eight years now since each of us acquired a swimming pool -- eight enlightening , vigorous , rigorous , not wholly unrewarding years .
We have learned a lot -- a dash of hydrochemistry here , a bit about plumbing and pump-priming there .
We have had sound grounding in the principles of the mailed-fist-in-velvet-glove school of diplomacy .
We have become amateur insurance experts and fine-feathered yard birds .
True , our problems have lessened a bit as more and more of our neighbors have built their own pools , thereby diluting our spectacular attractions .
But problems cling to pools , as any pool owner knows .
So our innate generosity of spirit prompts us to share our trials , errors and solutions with any who are taking the pool plunge for the first time -- in the pious hope that some may profit from our experience .
Where to put it
Position may not be everything , but in the case of a pool it can certainly contribute difficulties , social and/or physical .
We speak from varying viewpoints .
One of us has a pool set in a wooded area very near the house .
The other has his pool far away from the house in a field high on a hill .
If you are dreaming of a blue , shimmering pool right outside your living room windows , close your eyes firmly and fill in the picture with lots and lots of children , damp towels , squashed tubes of suntan oil and semi-inflated plastic toys .
You are likely to be nearer the truth .
You can also see that the greater the proximity of the pool to your main living quarters , the greater the chance for violation of family privacy , annoying noise and the let's-make-your-house-our-club attitude .
On the other hand , out-of-sight does not lead to out-of-mind when children cannot be easily observed and you have to make a long trek to reach the pool .
Another dilemma : As picturesque as a sylvan pond in the forest may be , trees offer a leaf and root hazard to the well-being of a pool .
Yet a grassy approach can turn a pool into a floating lawn every time the grass is mowed .
As in choosing a wife , it is only sensible to consider also how appealing a pool is likely to be in bad weather as well as in good .
In the colder climes , for instance , you will have to live through the many unglamorous winter months when your pool will hardly look its best .
It may be a big hole in the ground filled with salt hay , or an ice floe studded with logs .
Even a neat , plastic-covered plunge is not exactly a joy to behold .
( We do , however , recommend those patented covers to prevent both people and junk -- flora and fauna generally -- from accidentally wintering in the pool .
)
Probably no location for a pool is perfect on all counts .
Naturally it will be dictated to a large extent by the shape and size of your land .
But if space and money are no problem and small children are not on hand every day , it is certainly more restful to have your pool and entertainment area removed from the immediate environs of the house .
And a good several feet around the pool should be neither greensward nor woods , but good hard pavement .
The placement of your pool , however , will not of itself solve the two major problems of pool owning -- those that involve your social life and those pertaining to safety .
Coping with them demands stern discipline -- of yourself as well as of your family , neighbors , friends and anyone you ever talked to on a transoceanic jet .
Eight years ago while we were going through the mud-sweat-and-tears construction period , we were each solaced by the vision of early morning dips and evening home-comings to a cool family collected around the pool with a buffet table laid out nearby for the lord and master's delectation .
But not even our first pool-side gatherings came anywhere near those rosy fantasies .
We seemed to be witnessing the population explosion right in our own backyards .
Our respective families looked as if they had quadrupled .
Had we taken a lien on a state park ? ?
Not at all .
We had merely been discovered by the pool sharks .
We were in business ! !
From proud pool-owners to perpetual hosts and handymen was a short step -- no more than the change from city clothes to trunks .
Naive of us , maybe , but the results of our impulsive invitations to `` come over next summer and swim in our new pool '' were both unexpected and unsettling .
Our book of etiquette
After the first few weeks , it was obvious that rules had to be made , laid down and obeyed -- even if our popularity ratings became subnormal as a result .
So rules we made , in unabashed collusion .
Since our viewpoints in this respect coincided precisely , we present the fruits of our efforts herewith as a single social code for pool owners .
First and foremost : No one -- no , not anyone -- in the family is allowed to issue blanket invitations to his or her own circle .
Just short of forty lashes we finally managed to coerce our children to this view .
Their friends and ours are welcome to share the pool , but on our terms and at our times .
No friends are to arrive without an invitation or without at least telephoning beforehand .
No ringers , either -- even if they are trailing legitimate invitees .
We want to know when the Potlatches telephone exactly how many they are planning to bring , so that we won't end up with a splashing mob that looks like Coney Island in August .
No young children may come without adults except for a specific , organized , chaperoned party .
And accompanying adults are urged to keep an alert and sensible eye on their responsibilities .
A gaggle of gabbling mothers , backs to the pool , is no safeguard .
No bottle pool is tolerated -- bottle pool being our lingo for those who come to swim and sink into our bar while protesting that they can only dunk and run .
( Sanity , solvency and relations with our wine merchant took a beating that first summer as we inadvertently became the neighborhood free-drink stop .
)
We designated one day a week as the time when neighborhood teen-agers might swim at definite hours .
This has saved us from constant requests seven days a week and made us feel less brutal to the young `` less fortunate '' than ours .
We also worked out logistics for Sunday afternoon swimmers who arrive two hours early with their weekend guests while we are still enjoying an alfresco lunch en famille .
We gently usher them to an island of tables and chairs strategically placed on the far side of the pool where they can amuse each other until we get ready to merge sides .
All dressing ( undressing to be more exact ) must be done in our small bath house or at the swimmers' homes .
( To avoid any possible excuse for a dripping parade through your house , it is a good idea to have a telephone extension near the pool as well as a direct outdoor route between the pool , and the parking area .
) We do , however , provide a limited number of extra suits , mainly for children , and we stock extra towels and a few inexpensive bathing conveniences .
Life-preservers , the buckle-on kapok-filled kind , are held in readiness , too , for the very young .
Preserving life and limb
Safety rules , of course , are more important than all the others put together .
In many localities , now , the law requires all pools to be fenced , usually to a minimum height of 5 feet .
But fenced or unfenced , no pool-side is the place for running or horseplay .
We allow no underwater endurance contests , either , or inexpert versions of water polo .
Diving boards must have non-skid surfaces ( coco matting takes an awful beating from chlorine and rots quickly , but grit-impregnated paints are excellent ) .
And divers must be enjoined to look before they leap , either on top of someone else or onto a pool edge .
Our pools also have wide , shallow steps -- for the benefit of the littlest swimmers who can thus be introduced to the water with far greater safety than a ladder affords .
All bottles must be kept a safe distance away from the pool and drinking glasses are banned in favor of plastic or metal cups .
When you first acquire a pool , we earnestly recommend -- for your own mental health -- a good long chat with your insurance agent .
You should be prepared to cope with any pitfall such as plunges into empty pools or shallow ends and all manner of winter as well as summer lawsuits .
Soignee pools , alas , do not just happen .
They are the result of a constant and careful contest with the elements .
Unless you want to make your wife a pool widow and to spend a great many of your leisure hours nursing your pool's pristine purity , its care and feeding -- from pH content to filtering and vacuuming -- is best left to a weekly or bi-monthly professional service .
Of course , if your pool is close to the house , your wife can always add it to her housekeeping chores ( you hope ) .
Or you can make pool care the price of swimming for teen-agers .
Even so , every pool owner , in case of emergency , should have some idea of what makes things work .
A brief course in hydraulics from the pool builders may well be appreciated in a future crisis .
Preserving the pool
A sudden high rise in temperature will turn your pool poison green overnight .
You need more chlorine .
The walls feel slippery .
You need algaecide .
With or without professional help , you will have to be able to do some of these jobs yourself unless you have a full-time pool nurse .
You should see to it that the trap , the dirt-catcher in front of the filter , is always clean .
A pool is no place for a shut trap .
You should firmly insist that no bobby pins or hair pins be worn in the water .
When shed , they leave rust marks .
You can hope against hope that come spring cleaning , your fair-weather friends will lend a hand at scrubbing and furbishing .
It has happened .
Many hours of spring cleaning will be saved , however , if you remove the main drain grate when you close the pool season in the fall .
As the pool is emptied , stand by to brush down the walls and bottom while they are still wet .
Much of the dirt and leaf stain is easily removed when damp , but requires dynamite if allowed to dry .
If you have a 6- to 8-inch drain pipe , you may easily wash out all the debris when the grate is out .
Of course , when your 6-inch torrent of water is released , it may cause a lot of comment as it passes through or by neighboring properties .
Do not forget this possibility .
If your pool is located on or near sloping ground , it may have natural drainage which is certainly more desirable than to be faced with the annual expense and labor of first pumping out the water and then scooping out all the debris .
It may be true that pool lighting dramatizes an evening scene , but lights also attract all the insect life for miles around .
Once on the water , these little visitors seldom leave , and this adds to your filtering and vacuuming problems as well as providing a slapping good time for all those present .
Often one floodlight high in a tree will provide all the light you need at much less expense .
Our experience has taught us that it pays to buy the best equipment possible , from pipes to brushes .
Follow pool-care instructions to the letter , and be sure that one person ( in the family or not ) is regularly responsible for each aspect of the job , with no chance for claiming , `` It wasn't my turn '' .
Never let anyone not in the know take a turn at the valves -- even if the little boys do want to play space ship .
You may find yourself hitting bottom , literally , as you discover that water is running out even while you are putting it in .
Draw a line across the country at the latitude of lower Pennsylvania .
Any house built now below that line without air conditioning will be obsolete in 10 years .
Fortunately , it is the FHA which has arrived at this conclusion , for it means that cooling equipment of all kinds may now be included in a mortgage , and thus acquired with a minimum of financial stress .
Even if you live above that line , the FHA will back you , for they have decided that the inclusion of air conditioning in all new homes is a good thing and should be encouraged .
New simplified packaged units , recently devised prefabricated glass-fiber ducts , and improved add-on techniques make it possible to acquire a system for an 1800-square-foot house for as little as $600 to $900 .
Two men can often do the installation in a day .
You can install it yourself -- this is a central system that will cool every part of your house .
Its upkeep ? ?
No less an authority than the FHA concurs that the savings air conditioning makes possible more than offset its operating costs .
Is it worth-while ? ?
Home air conditioning has come a long way from the early days of overcooled theaters and the thermal shock they inflicted .
We know now that a 15-degree differential in temperature is the maximum usually desirable , and accurate controls assure the comfort we want .
We know , too , that health is never harmed by summer cooling .
On the contrary , there are fewer colds and smaller doctor bills .
The filtered air benefits allergies , asthma , sinus , hay fever .
Control of temperature and humidity is a godsend to the aged and the invalid .
Heart conditions and high blood pressure escape the stresses brought on by oppressive heat .
Housekeeping is easier .
The cleaner air means less time spent pushing a vacuum , fewer trips to the dry cleaners , lighter loads for the washing machine .
The need for reupholstering , redecorating , repainting becomes more infrequent .
Clothes hold their shape better , and mildew and rust become almost forgotten words .
It will improve your disposition .
When you're less fatigued , things just naturally look brighter .
The children can have their daytime naps and hot meals , and be put to bed on schedule in shade-darkened rooms .
You'll sleep longer and better , too , awake refreshed and free of hot weather nerves .
You can forget about screens , and leave the storm windows up all year around .
Best of all , central air conditioning is something you can afford .
Like its long-lived cousin , the refrigerator , a conditioner can be expected to last 20 to 25 years or more .
That brings its per-year cost down mighty low .
For any house .
No matter what style your home is , ranch , two-story , Colonial or contemporary , central air conditioning is easily installed .
The equipment won't take up valuable space either .
It can go in out-of-the-way waste space .
But there's no denying that the easiest and most economical way to get year-'round whole-house air conditioning is when you build .
If that's done , the house can be designed and oriented for best operation , and this can mean savings both in the size of equipment and in the cost of the house itself .
If you can't see your way clear to have summer cooling included when building , by all means make provision for its easy adding later .
Manufacturers have designed equipment for just such circumstances , and your savings over starting from scratch will be substantial .
If your house is to have a forced warm air system , cooling can be a part of it .
This costs less than having a completely separate cooling system , for your regular heating ductwork , filters and furnace blower do double duty for cooling .
You can get year-'round air conditioners in the same variety of styles in which you buy a furnace alone -- high or low boy , horizontal or counterflow .
The units can be installed in basement , attic , crawlspace , or in a closet located in the living area .
The cooling coil is located in the furnace's outlet .
From the coil small copper pipes connect to a weatherproof refrigeration section set in the yard , garage , carport , or basement .
If you plan to add cooling later to your heating system , there are things to watch for .
Be sure ducts that require insulation get it when they are installed .
They may be inaccessible later .
Be sure your ducts and blower are big enough to handle cooling .
This is especially important if you live in a mild-winter zone .
Be sure you get a perimeter heating system , and diffusers that will work as well for cooling as they do for heating .
You can get a hot water system that will also work for cooling your house .
For cooling , chilled water is circulated instead of hot water .
Instead of radiators you'll have cooling-heating units , each with its own thermostat .
These systems are more expensive than year-'round forced air systems .
The minimum cost for an average one-story , 7-room house with basement , is likely to run $1500 above the cost of the heating alone .
Separate systems .
If the problems of combining cooling with your heating are knotty , it may be cheaper to plan on a completely separate cooling system .
The simplest kind of separate system uses a single , self-contained unit .
It is , in effect , an oversize room conditioner equipped with prefab glass-fiber ducts to distribute the cooled , cleaned , dehumidified air where it is wanted .
In a long , rambling ranch , two such units can be installed , one serving the living area , the other the sleeping zone .
In a two-story house , one unit may be installed in the basement to serve the first floor , another in the attic to cool the second .
In each case , having separate systems for living and sleeping areas has the advantage of permitting individual zone control .
The heat pump .
One of the more remarkable of the new cooling systems is one that can be switched to heating .
As you know , a conditioner makes indoor air cool by pumping the heat out of it and then releasing this heat outdoors .
A relatively simple switching arrangement reverses the cycle so that the machine literally runs backward , and the heat is extracted from outdoor air and turned indoors .
Up until recently , this heat pump method of warming air was efficient only in areas of mild winters and when outside temperatures were above 40 degrees .
Now , the machine has been improved to a point where it is generally more economical than oil heat at temperatures down to 15 degrees .
You can get this added heating feature for as little as $200 more than the price of cooling alone .
Consider it as a standby setup , at negligible cost , for those emergencies when the furnace quits , a blizzard holds up fuel delivery , or for cool summer mornings or evenings when you don't want to start up your whole heating plant .
What size conditioner ? ?
How large a cooling unit you need , and the method of its installation , depends on a variety of factors .
Among other things , besides the nature of your house and how much heat finds its way into its various rooms from the outside , it will depend upon your personal habits and the makeup of your family .
Families with children usually don't want the house quite so cool .
If you are a party thrower , you may need added capacity .
The body is a heat machine , and 20 to 25 guests can easily double your cooling load .
Cooling requirements are best expressed in terms of Aj .
A BTU is a unit of heat , and the BTU rating of a conditioner refers to how much heat your machine can pump out of your house in an hour .
A very rough rule of thumb is that , under favorable conditions , you'll need 15 BTU's of cooling for every square foot of your house .
This is if outdoor temperatures have a high average of 95 degrees .
You'll need more if the high average is above that , less if it's below .
Coolers are also rated by tons .
A ton of cooling compares to the cooling you get by melting a ton of ice .
By accepted definition , a 1-ton conditioner will provide 12,000 BTU of cooling in one hour .
You may find a conditioner rated by horsepower .
It is generally an inaccurate method of rating , for the horsepower is that of the compressor motor , and many other components beside it determine how much cooling you'll get .
A 1-hp conditioner , for example , may vary in effectiveness from under 8,000 BTU to well over 10,000 Aj .
The safest procedure is to let your builder estimate the size of the unit you need , rather than trying to do this yourself .
Don't urge your builder to give you a little extra cooling capacity just to be sure you have enough .
Better to have your equipment slightly undersized than too big .
Here's why :
Reducing humidity is often as important as cooling .
An oversize unit will cool off your house quickly , then shut down for a long period .
Before it cycles on again , humidity can build up and make you uncomfortable even though the temperature is still low .
With a unit of the right size , a compressor will run continuously during hot weather , reducing humidity as evenly as it does temperature .
Money-saving tips .
Attention to details can cut in half the size unit you need and pare operating expense proportionately .
A well-designed , 1200-square-foot house can be comfortably cooled and heated for as little as $128 a year , or $11 a month .
If you have a house which heat doesn't penetrate easily , your unit will have less heat to remove .
Keep the direct sun from reaching the house and you've won the first battle .
In a new house , generous roof overhangs are a logical and effective solution .
If the house you plan to buy or build won't have big overhangs , you can still do a fair job of keeping the sun off walls and windows with properly designed trellises , fences and awnings .
Shade trees , too , are a big help , so keep them if you can .
Drawn blinds and draperies do some good , but not nearly as much as shading devices on the outside of the house .
The more directly the sun strikes walls and roof , the greater its heat impact .
The way a house is set on its lot can therefore influence how much cooling you're going to need .
A shift in the walls , or a change in the roof slope , so the sun hits them more obliquely , can save you money .
You can use heat-absorbing glass to stop the sun , double glass and insulated glass to combat condensation .
Restrict large glass areas to the north and south sides of the house .
They're easier to shade there .
An attic space above insulation makes a house easier to cool .
You'll even gain by putting your water heater outside the conditioned space , and using an electric range instead of a gas one .
Gas adds to the moisture load .
Insulate , weatherstrip , double-glaze to the maximum .
In insulation , the numbers to remember are 6-4-2 .
They stand for 6 inches of mineral wool insulation in the ceiling , 4 inches in the side walls , 2 inches in the floors .
Such extra-thick insulation not only permits a much smaller cooling installation , but will continue to reduce operating expenses both in heating and cooling .
A light-colored roof will reduce sun heat by 50 per cent .
It costs two to three times as much to remove a BTU in summer as it does to add one in winter , so every solitary BTU is worth attention .
You'll foil them in droves , along with their pal humidity , by having and using a kitchen range exhaust fan , a bathroom ventilator for when you shower , and an outside vent for the clothes drier .
Keeping conditioners quiet .
It's no use pretending that all conditioners are quiet , but the noise they produce can be kept to a minimum .
Good workmanship is important in the installation , so if you're doing your own contracting , don't award the job on the basis of price alone .
Avoid attic placement directly above a bedroom .
Most recreation work calls for a good deal of pre-planning .
This is particularly true in site selection .
You must know before you start what the needs and objectives of your organization are ; ;
you must have a list of requirements on where , how many , and what type sites are needed .
With such a program you can make constructive selections of the best sites available .
Begin the examination of a site with a good map and aerial photos if possible .
These are becoming more and more available through the work of counties and other government agencies .
The new editions of topographic maps being made by the federal government are excellent for orienting yourself to the natural features of the site .
These are inexpensive and available from the U. S. Geological Society , Washington 25 , D. C. .
In recent years many counties and the U. S. Forest Service have taken aerial photos which show features in detail and are very good for planning use .
Most counties also have maps available from the county engineer showing roads and other features and from the assessor's office showing ownerships of land .
Inspect the site in the field during the time of the year when the area will be most heavily used for recreation .
This gives you a better opportunity to get the feel of the climate conditions , the exposure to the sun and wind , the water interests , etcetera , which vary greatly with the seasons .
It is usually helpful to make a sketch map in the field , showing the size and location of the features of interest and to take photographs at the site .
These are a great aid for planning use back at the office .
For site planning work , it is best to have a qualified and experienced park planner to carry through the study .
However , there is also much to be gained by making use of the abilities of the local people who are available and interested in recreation .
County judges , commissioners , engineers , assessors , and others who have lived in the area for a long time may have valuable knowledge regarding the site or opinions to offer from their varied professional experiences .
A visit to the site by a group of several persons can usually bring out new ideas or verify opinions most helpful to the planning study of any recreation area .
How much study is required ? ?
This , of course , depends on the character of the site itself , the previous experience of the investigator , and the number of factors needed to arrive at a good decision .
It is too easy for the inexperienced person to make a quick judgment of a few values of the area and base a decision on these alone .
Usually there are more factors to good site planning than first impressions .
A site may be a rundown slum or a desolate piece of desert in appearance today but have excellent potentials for the future with a little development or water .
The same is true of areas which at first look good because of a few existing recreation features but may actually be poor areas to develop for general public use .
In looking for the best sites available that meet the requirements , you need information to compare the site with others .
You need answers to four important questions .
What are the existing recreation features ? ?
How well can the site be developed ? ?
How useful will it be to the public ? ?
Is this site available ? ?
Check the quantity and quality of all of the recreation interests already existing at the site .
Naturally , a park site with scenic views , a good lake , trees , and sand dunes , will attract more people than a nearby area with only trees and dunes .
Quality is vitally important .
Frontage on a body of clear , clean water will be vastly different from the same amount of frontage on polluted water .
Some recreation features , such as scenic values and water interest , also have greater overall value than other interests .
One of the most desirable features for a park are beautiful views or scenery .
It may be distant views of a valley or the mountains or natural features such as a small lake , colorful rock formations , or unusual trees .
A site which overlooks a harbor or river may offer interest in the activities of boating traffic .
An area on the coast may have relaxing views of the surf rolling in on a beach .
A site may also be attractive just through the beauty of its trees and shrubs .
Note extent of these interests and how available they will be for the public to enjoy .
Water interest is one of the most valuable factors you can find for a recreation site .
Most park planners look to water frontage for basic park areas .
This follows naturally since frontage on an ocean , stream , or lake provides scenic values and opportunities for the very popular recreation activities of bathing , fishing , boating , and other water sports .
A body of water is usually the center of interest at parks which attract the greatest picnic and camping use .
It also cools the air in summer and nourishes the trees and wild life .
The amount of water frontage , the quantity and quality of the water , and the recreation afforded by it are important .
A restricted frontage may be too crowded an area for public use .
The quantity of water flow may be critical ; ;
a stream or pond which is attractive in the springtime may become stagnant or dry in late summer .
If the site is on a reservoir , the level of the water at various seasons as it affects recreation should be studied .
Check the quality of the water .
A stream which has all of its watershed within a national forest or other lands under good conservation practices is less likely to be affected by pollution than one passing through unrestricted logging or past an industrial area .
Other factors , such as water temperature , depth of water , the fish life it supports , wave action , flooding , etcetera , will affect its recreation value .
Other natural features which can be of high interest are the forests , canyons , mountains , deserts , seacoast , beaches , sand dunes , waterfalls , springs , etcetera with which the area is blessed .
Just as the national and state parks place emphasis on features which are of national or state significance , counties should seek out these features which are distinctive of their area .
Although the site may not contain the features themselves , there are often opportunities to include them as additional interest to the site .
The route to the park may lead people past them or display views of them .
A group of native trees or plants which are outstanding in a particular county can be featured at the site .
The fish , animals , and birds which may be found at the site are another interest .
Fishing interest calls for a check of the species found , quantity and size , the season they are available , and the stocking program of the fish commission .
Animals may be present at the site or provide hunting in nearby areas .
The site may be on one of the major flyways of migratory birds or have its own resident bird life .
Clams , crabs , and other marine life may add interest at coastal areas .
Each area has its own historical interests with which much can be done .
Park visitors are always eager to learn more about the area they are in .
The historical sign tells its story , but nothing gets interest across as well as some of the original historical items or places themselves which still have the character of the period covered .
Notice should be taken of unusual rock formations , deposits , or shapes of the earth's crust in your region .
Those which tell a story of the earth's formation in each area can add geological interest to the recreation sites .
An old shipwreck , a high dam , an old covered bridge , a place to find agates or other semi-precious stones or a place to pan gold , etcetera may be of interest .
Some areas may provide archeological values such as ancient Indian village sites or hunting areas , caves , artifacts , etcetera .
How well can the site be developed ? ?
Look at the physical features of the land to determine how desirable it is for use , what can be done to correct the faults , and what it will cost to make the area meet your needs in comparison to other sites .
Many things need to be checked :
size and shape
-- The size of the area alone can be a determining factor .
An area may be too small for the needs of the project .
Areas should be large enough to include the attractions , have ample space for the use of facilities needed , and have room around the edges to protect the values of the area from encroachment by private developments .
Acreage in excess of the minimum is good practice as recreation areas are never too large for the future and it is often more economical to operate one large area than several small ones .
Shape of the area is also related to the use attractions and needs of the development .
A large picnic area or camping development is most efficient in shape as a square or rectangle several hundred feet in width in preference to a long narrow area less than one hundred feet wide .
This is true because of savings in utility lines and the fact that your buildings have a useful radius equal in all directions .
However , a narrow strip may be very practical for small developments , or to provide additional stream frontage for a fisherman's trail , or include scenic strips within the park unit .
Adjoining areas
-- The values of the site may be affected by the appearance of the adjoining lands , ownership and use of the land , and the utilities available there .
For instance , a site adjoining other publicly owned lands , such as a national forest or a public road , may be desirable , whereas a site next to an industrial plant might not .
The utilities available nearby may provide a savings in the cost of extending electricity or water to the site .
Topography
-- Topography is very important .
Check the elevation of the ground , degree and direction of slopes , drainage , rock outcrops , topsoil types and quality , as well as subsoil .
Nearly level areas are required for parking areas , beaches , camp areas , ballfields , etcetera .
Determine how much topography limits useful area or what the costs of earth moving or grading might be .
Water
-- In addition to its recreation interests , water is needed for drinking , sanitation , and irrigation .
The quantity and quality of water sources is often a big factor in site selection .
The area may provide good springs or opportunities for a well or be near to municipal water lines .
Figure the cost of providing water to the use areas .
Plants
-- The existing plant growth calls for thorough checking .
Look at the trees as to size and interest , the amount of shade they provide , how healthy they are , the problems of maintenance , fire hazards , wind throw , etcetera .
An area may have been partially logged and requires removal of stumps or clean-up .
Some shrubs may be of good landscaping value , other areas of brush may need to be cleared .
The extent and location of open areas is noted .
Exposure
-- How much will wind , rain , sun , and temperature affect the use ? ?
An area sheltered from strong winds may be highly desirable for recreation use .
The direction , velocity , and season of these winds should be noted as to just how they will affect the recreation use and your maintenance and operation of the area .
Lack of rainfall and extreme temperatures may call for the development of shade and irrigation of a site to make it useable .
Sometimes , you have a choice of exposure for sites where the topography or trees of the area will provide afternoon shade , morning sun , or whatever may be most desirable for the use intended .
Improvements
-- Some areas may already have been improved and contain buildings , roads , utilities , cleared land , etcetera which may raise the cost of the site .
Your invitation to write about Serge Prokofieff to honor his 70th Anniversary for the April issue of Sovietskaya Muzyka is accepted with pleasure , because I admire the music of Prokofieff ; ;
and with sober purpose , because the development of Prokofieff personifies , in many ways , the course of music in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics .
The Serge Prokofieff whom we knew in the United States of America was gay , witty , mercurial , full of pranks and bonheur -- and very capable as a professional musician .
These qualities endeared him to both the musicians and the social-economic haute monde which supported the concert world of the post-World War 1 , era .
Prokofieff's outlook as a composer-pianist-conductor in America was , indeed , brilliant .
Prokofieff's Classical Symphony was hailed as an ingenious work from a naturally gifted and well-trained musician still in his twenties .
To the Traditionalists , it was a brilliant satire on modernism ; ;
to the Neo-Classicists , it was a challenge to the pre-war world .
What was it to Prokofieff ? ?
A tongue-in-cheek stylization of 18th-Century ideas ; ;
a trial balloon to test the aesthetic climate of the times ; ;
a brilliant piece de resistance ? ?
Certainly its composer was an ascending star on a new world horizon .
I heard the Classical Symphony for the first time when Koussevitzky conducted it in Paris in 1927 .
All musical Paris was there .
Some musicians were enthusiastic , some skeptical .
I myself was one of the skeptics ( 35 years ago ) .
I remember Ernest Bloch in the foyer , shouting in his high-pitched voice : `` it may be a tour de force , mais mon Dieu , can anyone take this music seriously '' ? ?
The answer is , `` Yes '' ! !
Certainly , America took Prokofieff and his Classical Symphony seriously , and with a good deal of pleasure .
His life-long friend , Serge Koussevitzky , gave unreservedly of his praise and brilliant performances in Boston , New York , and Washington , D.C. , , to which he added broadcastings and recordings for the whole nation .
Chicago was also a welcome host : there , in 1921 , Prokofieff conducted the world premiere of the Love For Three Oranges , and played the first performance of his Third Piano Concerto .
`` Uncle Sam '' was , indeed , a rich uncle to Prokofieff , in those opulent , post-war victory years of peace and prosperity , bold speculations and extravaganzas , enjoyment and pleasure : `` The Golden Twenties '' .
We attended the premieres of his concertos , symphonies , and suites ; ;
we studied , taught , and performed his piano sonatas , chamber music , gavottes , and marches ; ;
we bought his records and played them in our schools and universities .
We unanimously agreed that Prokofieff had won his rights as a world citizen to the first ranks of Twentieth-Century Composers .
Nevertheless , Prokofieff was much influenced by Paris during the Twenties : the Paris which was the artistic center of the Western World -- the social Paris to which Russian aristocracy migrated -- the chic Paris which attracted the tourist dollars of rich America -- the avant-garde Paris of Diaghileff , Stravinsky , Koussevitzky , Cocteau , Picasso -- the laissez-faire Paris of Dadaism and ultramodern art -- the Paris sympathique which took young composers to her bosom with such quick and easy enthusiasms .
So young Prokofieff was the darling of success : in his motherland ; ;
in the spacious hunting grounds of `` Uncle Sam '' ; ;
in the exciting salons of his lovely , brilliant Paris -- mistress of gaiety -- excess and abandon -- world theatre of new-found freedoms in tone , color , dance , design , and thought .
Meanwhile , three great terrible forces were coagulating and crystallizing .
In this world-wide conscription of men , minds , and machines , Prokofieff was recalled to his native land .
The world exploded when Fascism challenged all concepts of peace and liberty , and the outraged , freedom-loving peoples of the Capitalist and Socialist worlds combined forces to stamp Fascist tyranny into cringing submission .
After this holocaust , a changing world occupied the minds of men ; ;
a world beset with new boundaries , new treaties and governments , new goals and methods , and the age-old fears of aggression and subjugation -- hunger and exposure .
In this changed world , Prokofieff settled to find himself , and to create for large national purpose .
Here , this happy , roving son of good fortune proved that he could accept the disciplines of a new social-economic order fighting for its very existence and ideals in a truculent world .
Here , Prokofieff became a workman in the vineyards of Socialism -- producing music for the masses .
It is at this point in his life that the mature Prokofieff emerges .
One might have expected that such a violent epoch of transition would have destroyed the creative flair of a composer , especially one whose works were so fluent and spontaneous .
But no : Prokofieff grew .
He accepted the environment of his destiny -- took root and grew to fulfill the stature of his early promise .
By 1937 he had clarified his intentions to serve his people : `` I have striven for clarity and melodious idiom , but at the same time I have by no means attempted to restrict myself to the accepted methods of harmony and melody .
This is precisely what makes lucid , straightforward music so difficult to compose -- the clarity must be new , not old '' .
How right he was ; ;
how clearly he saw the cultural defection of experimentation as an escape for those who dare not or prefer not to face the discipline of modern traditionalism .
And with what resource did Prokofieff back up his Credo of words -- with torrents of powerful music .
Compare the vast difference in scope and beauty between his neat and witty little Classical Symphony and his big , muscular , passionate , and eloquent Fifth Symphony ; ;
or the Love For Three Oranges ( gay as it is ) with the wonderful , imaginative , colorful , and subtle tenderness of the magnificent ballet , The Stone Flower .
This masterpiece has gaiety , too , but it is the gaiety of dancing people : earthy , salty and humorous .
Of course , these works are not comparable , even though the same brain conceived them .
The early works were conceived for a sophisticated , international audience ; ;
the later works were conceived to affirm a way of life for fellow citizens .
However , in all of Prokofieff's music , young or mature , we find his profile -- his `` signature '' -- his craftsman's attitude .
Prokofieff never forsakes his medium for the cause of experimentation per se .
In orchestration , he stretches the limits of instrumentation with good judgment and a fine imagination for color .
His sense for rhythmic variety and timing is impeccable .
His creative development of melodic designs of Slavic dance tunes and love songs is captivating : witty , clever , adroit , and subtle .
His counterpoint is pertinent , skillful , and rarely thick .
Also , it should be noted that the polytonal freedom of his melodies and harmonic modulations , the brilliant orchestrations , the adroitness for evading the heaviness of figured bass , the skill in florid counterpoint were not lost in his mature output , even in the spectacular historical dramas of the stage and cinema , where a large , dramatic canvas of sound was required .
That Prokofieff's harmonies and forms sometimes seem professionally routine to our ears , may or may not indicate that he was less of an `` original '' than we prefer to believe .
Need for novelty may be a symptom of cultural fatigue and instability .
Prokofieff might well emerge as a cultural hero , who , by the force of his creative life , helped preserve the main stream of tradition , to which the surviving idioms of current experimentalism may be eventually added and integrated .
At this date , it seems probable that the name of Serge Prokofieff will appear in the archives of History , as an effective Traditionalist , who was fully aware of the lure and danger of experimentation , and used it as it served his purpose ; ;
yet was never caught up in it -- never a slave to its academic dialectics .
Certainly , it is the traditional clarity of his music which has endeared him to the Western World -- not his experimentations .
So Prokofieff was able to cultivate his musical talents and harvest a rich reward from them .
Nor can anyone be certain that Prokofieff would have done better , or even as well , under different circumstances .
His fellow-countryman , Igor Stravinsky , certainly did not .
Why did Prokofieff expand in stature and fecundity , while Stravinsky ( who leaped into fame like a young giant ) dwindled in stature and fruitfulness ? ?
I think the answer is to be found in Prokofieff's own words : `` the clarity must be new , not old '' .
When Prokofieff forged his new clarity of `` lucid , straightforward music , so difficult to compose '' , he shaped his talents to his purpose .
When Stravinsky shaped his purpose to the shifting scenes of many cultures , many salons , many dialectics , many personalities , he tried to refashion himself into a stylist of many styles , determined by many disparate cultures .
Prokofieff was guided in a consistent direction by the life of his own people -- by the compass of their national ideas .
But Stravinsky was swayed by the attitudes of whatever culture he was reflecting .
In all his miscalculations , Stravinsky made the fatal historical blunder of presuming that he could transform other composers' inspirations -- representing many peoples , time periods and styles -- into his own music by warping the harmony , melody , or form , to verify his own experiments .
Because of the authentic homogeneity of his early Nationalistic materials , and his flair for orchestrations -- his brilliant Petruchka , his savage Sacre Du Printemps , his incisive Les Noces -- the world kept hoping that he could recapture the historical direction for which his native talents were predisposed .
But time is running out , and many of Stravinsky's admirers begin to fear that he will never find terra firma .
His various aesthetic postulates remain as landmarks of a house divided against itself : Supra-Expressionism , Neo-Paganism , Neo-Classicism , Neo-Romanticism , Neo-Jazz , Neo-Ecclesiasticism , Neo-Popularism , and most recently , Post-Serialism -- all competing with each other within one composer ! !
What a patchwork of proclamations and renunciations ! !
Meager and shabby by-products linger to haunt our memories of a once mighty protagonist ; ;
a maladroit reharmonization of our National Anthem ( The Star-Spangled Banner ) ; ;
a poor attempt to write an idiomatic jazz concerto ; ;
a circus polka for elephants ; ;
his hopes that the tunes from his old music might be used for popular American commercial songs ! !
Stravinsky , nearing the age of eighty , is like a lost and frantic bird , flitting from one abandoned nest to another , searching for a home .
How differently Prokofieff's life unfolded .
Prokofieff was able to adjust his creative personality to a swiftly changing world without losing his particular force and direction .
In the process , his native endowments were stretched , strengthened and disciplined to serve their human purpose .
With a large and circumspect 20th-Century technique , he wove the materials of national heroes and events , national folklore and children's fairy tales -- Slavic dances and love songs -- into a solid musical literature which served his people well , and is providing much enjoyment to the World at large .
Of course , it must not be forgotten that in achieving this historical feat , Prokofieff had the vast resources of his people behind him ; ;
time and economic security ; ;
symphony orchestras , opera and ballet companies ; ;
choruses , chamber music ensembles ; ;
soloists ; ;
recordings ; ;
broadcastings ; ;
television ; ;
large and eager audiences .
It must be conceded that his native land provided Prokofieff with many of the necessary conditions for great creative incentive : economic security and cultural opportunities , incisive idioms , social fermentations for a new national ideology -- a sympathetic public and a large body of performers especially trained to fulfill his purpose .
Thus in Prokofieff the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics produced one of the great composers of the Twentieth Century .
That his moods , even in his early years , are those of his people , does him honor , as his music honors those who inspired it .
That he mastered every aspect of his medium according to his own great talents and contemporary judgments , is a good and solid symbol of his people under the tremendous pressures of proclaiming and practising the rigors of a new culture ; ;
and perhaps of even greater significance -- his music is strong 20th-Century evidence of the effectiveness of Evolution , based on a broad Traditionalism for the creative art of music .
April 10 marked a memorable date in New York's musical history -- indeed in the musical history of the entire eastern United States .
On that date the Musicians Emergency Fund , organized to furnish employment for musicians unable to obtain engagements during the depression and to provide relief for older musicians who lost their fortunes in the stock market crash , observed its 30th anniversary .
Roy Mason is essentially a landscape painter whose style and direction has a kinship with the English watercolorists of the early nineteenth century , especially the beautifully patterned art of John Sell Cotman .
And like this English master , Mason realizes his subjects in large , simplified masses which , though they seem effortless , are in reality the result of skilled design born of hard work and a thorough distillation of the natural form that inspired them .
As a boy Roy Mason began the long process of extracting the goodness of the out-of-doors , its tang of weather , its change of seasons , its variable moods .
His father , a professional engraver and an amateur landscape painter , took his sons on numerous hunting expeditions , and imparted to them his knowledge and love of nature .
Out of this background of hunting and fishing , it was only natural that Roy first painted subjects he knew best : hunters in the field , fishermen in the stream , ducks and geese on the wing -- almost always against a vast backdrop of weather landscape .
It is this subject matter that has brought Mason a large and enthusiastic following among sportsmen , but it is his exceptional performance with this motif that commends him to artists and discerning collectors .
Mason had to earn the privilege of devoting himself exclusively to painting .
Like many others , he had to work hard , long hours in a struggling family business which , though it was allied to art of a kind -- the design and production of engraved seals -- bore no relation to the painting of pictures .
But it did teach Roy the basic techniques of commercial art , and later , for twelve years , he and his sister Nina conducted an advertising art studio in Philadelphia .
On the death of their father , they returned to their home in Batavia , New York .
After more years of concentrated effort , Roy and his brother Max finally established a thriving family business at the old stand .
During all this time Roy continued to paint , first only on weekends , and then , as the family business permitted , for longer periods .
Gradually he withdrew from the shop altogether , and for the past thirty years , he has worked independently as a painter , except for his continued hunting and fishing expeditions .
But even on these , the palette often takes over while the shotgun cools off ! !
Except for a rich friendship with the painter , Chauncey Ryder who gave him the only professional instruction he ever had -- and this was limited to a few lessons , though the two artists often went on painting trips together -- Roy developed his art by himself .
In the best tradition , he first taught himself to see , then to draw with accuracy and assurance , and then to paint .
He worked in oil for years before beginning his work in watercolor , and his first public recognition and early honors , including his election to the Academy , were for his essays in the heavier medium .
Gradually watercolor claimed his greater affection until today it has become his major , if not exclusive , technique .
It has been my privilege to paint with Roy Mason on numerous occasions , mostly in the vicinity of Batavia .
More often than not I have found easy excuse to leave my own work and stand at a respectable distance where I could watch this man transform raw nature into a composed , not imitative , painting .
What I have observed time and time again is a process of integration , integration that begins as abstract design and gradually takes on recognizable form ; ;
color patterns that are made to weave throughout the whole composition ; ;
and that over-all , amazing control of large washes which is the Mason stylemark .
Finally come those little flicks of a rigger brush and the job is done .
Inspiring -- yes ; ;
instructive -- maybe ; ;
duplicable -- no ! !
But for the technical fact , we have the artist's own testimony :
`` Of late years , I find that I like best to work out-of-doors .
First I make preliminary watercolor sketches in quarter scale ( approximately Af inches ) in which I pay particular attention to the design principles of three simple values -- the lightest light , the middle tone , and the darkest dark -- by reducing the forms of my subject to these large patterns .
If a human figure or wild life are to be part of the projected final picture , I try to place them in the initial sketch .
For me , these will belong more completely to their surroundings if they are conceived in this early stage , though I freely admit that I do not hesitate to add or eliminate figures on the full sheet when it serves my final purpose .
`` I am thoroughly convinced that most watercolors suffer because the artist expects nature will do his composing for him ; ;
as a result , such pictures are only a literal translation of what the artist finds in the scene before him .
Just because a tree or other object appears in a certain spot is absolutely no reason to place it in the same position in the painting , unless the position serves the design of the whole composition .
If the artist would study his work more thoroughly and move certain units in his design , often only slightly , finer pictures would result .
Out of long experience I have found that incidental figures and other objects like trees , logs , and bushes can be traced from the original sketch and moved about in the major areas on the final sheet until they occupy the right position , which I call clicking .
`` Speed in painting a picture is valid only when it imparts spontaneity and crispness , but unless the artist has lots of experience so that he can control rapid execution , he would do well to take these first sketches and soberly reorder their design to achieve a unified composition .
`` If I have seemed to emphasize the structure of the composition , I mean to project equal concern for color .
Often , in working out-of-doors under all conditions of light and atmosphere , a particular passage that looked favorable in relation to the subject will be too bright , too dull , or too light , or too dark when viewed indoors in a mat .
When this occurs , I make the change on the sketch or on the final watercolor -- if I have been working on a full sheet in the field .
`` When working from one of my sketches I square it up and project its linear form freehand to the watercolor sheet with charcoal .
When this linear draft is completed , I dust it down to a faint image .
From this point , I paint in as direct a manner as possible , by flowing on the washes with as pure a color mixture as I can manage .
However , first I thoughtfully study my sketch for improvement of color and design along the lines I have described .
Then I plan my attack : the parts I will finish first , the range of values , the accenting of minor details -- all in all , mechanics of producing the finished job with a maximum of crispness .
The longer I work , the more I am sure that for me , at least , a workmanlike method is important .
Trial and error are better placed in the preliminary sketch than in hoping for miracles in the final painting .
`` As for materials , I use the best available .
I work on a watercolor easel in the field , and frequently resort to a large garden umbrella to protect my eyes from undue strain .
In my studio I work at a tilt-top table , but leave the paper unfixed so that I can move it freely to control the washes .
I have used a variety of heavy-weight hand-made papers , but prefer an English make , rough surface , in 400-pound weight .
After selecting a sheet and inspecting it for flaws ( even the best sometimes has foreign ' nubbins ' on its surface ) , I sponge it thoroughly on both sides with clean , cold water .
Then I dry the sheet under mild pressure so that it will lie flat as a board .
`` In addition to the usual tools , I make constant use of cleansing tissue , not only to wipe my brushes , but to mop up certain areas , to soften edges , and to open up lights in dark washes .
The great absorbency of this tissue and the fact that it is easier to control than a sponge makes it an ideal tool for the watercolorist .
I also use a small electric hand-blower to dry large washes in the studio .
`` My brushes are different from those used by most watercolorists , for I combine the sable and the bristle .
The red sables are 8 ; ;
two riggers , 6 and 10 ; ;
and a very large , flat wash brush .
The bristles are a Fitch 2 and a one-half inch brush shaved to a sharp chisel edge .
`` My usual palette consists of top-quality colors : alizarin crimson , orange , raw sienna , raw umber , burnt sienna , sepia , cerulean blue , cobalt blue , French ultramarine blue , Winsor green , Hooker's green 2 , cadmium yellow pale , yellow ochre , Payne's gray , charcoal gray , Davy's gray , and ivory black '' .
In analyzing the watercolors of Roy Mason , the first thing that comes to mind is their essential decorativeness , yet this word has such a varied connotation that it needs some elaboration here .
True , a Mason watercolor is unmistakably a synthesis of nature rather than a detailed inventory .
Unlike many decorative patterns that present a static flat convention , this artist's pictures are full of atmosphere and climate .
Long observation has taught Mason that most landscape can be reduced to three essential planes : a foreground in sharp focus -- either a light area with dark accents or a dark one with lights ; ;
a middle distance often containing the major motif ; ;
and a background , usually a silhouetted form foiled against the sky .
In following this general principle , Mason provides the observer with a natural eye progression from foreground to background , and the illusion of depth is instantly created .
When painting , Mason's physical eyes are half-closed , while his mind's eye is wide open , and this circumstance accounts in part for the impression he wishes to convey .
He does not insist on telling all he knows about any given subject ; ;
rather his pictures invite the observer to draw on his memory , his imagination , his nostalgia .
It is for this reason that Roy avoids selecting subjects that require specific recognition of place for their enjoyment .
His pictures generalize , though they are inspired by a particular locale ; ;
they universalize in terms of weather , skies , earth , and people .
By dealing with common landscape in an uncommon way , Roy Mason has found a particular niche in American landscape art .
Living with his watercolors is a vicarious experience of seeing nature distilled through the eyes of a sensitive interpretor , a breath and breadth of the outdoor world to help man honor the Creator of it all .
The artist was born in Gilbert Mills , New York , in 1886 , and until two years ago when he and his wife moved to California , he lived in western New York , in Batavia .
When I looked up the actual date of his birth and found it to be March 15th , I realized that Roy was born under the right zodiacal sign for a watercolorist : the water sign of Pisces ( February 18 thru March 20 ) .
And how very often a water plane is featured in his landscapes , and how appropriate that he should appear in American Artist again , in his natal month of March ! !
Over the years , beginning in 1929 , Mason has been awarded seventeen major prizes including two gold medals ; ;
two Ranger Fund purchase awards ; ;
the Joseph Pennell Memorial Medal ; ;
two American Watercolor Society prizes ; ;
the Blair Purchase Prize for watercolor , Art Institute of Chicago ; ;
and others in Buffalo , New York , Chautauqua , New Haven , Rochester , Rockport , and most recently , the $300 prize for a watercolor at the Laguna Beach Art Association ,
He was elected to the National Academy of Design as an Associate in the oil class in 1931 ( after receiving his first Ranger Fund Purchase Prize at the Academy in 1930 ) , and elevated to Academicianship in 1940 .
Other memberships include the American Watercolor Society , Philadelphia Water Color Club , Allied Artists of America , Audubon Artists , Baltimore Watercolor Society .
The Russian gymnasts beat the tar out of the American gymnasts in the 1960 Olympics for one reason -- they were better .
They were better trained , better looking , better built , better disciplined and something else -- they were better dancers .
Our athletes are only just beginning to learn that they must study dance .
The Russians are all trained as dancers before they start to study gymnastics .
But why gymnastics at all ? ?
And is the sport really important ? ?
After all , we did pretty well in some other areas of the Olympics competition .
But if it is important , what can we do to improve ourselves ? ?
It is more than just lack of dance training that is our problem , for just as gymnastics can learn from dance , dance has some very important things to learn from gymnastics .
Taking first things first , let's understand the sport called gymnastics .
It is made up of tumbling , which might be said to start with a somersault , run through such stunts as headstands , handstands , cartwheels , backbends , and culminate in nearly impossible combinations of aerial flips and twists and apparatus work .
The apparatus used by gymnasts was once a common sight in American gyms , but about 1930 it was dropped in favor of games .
The parallel bars , horse , buck , springboard , horizontal bar , rings , and mats formerly in the school gyms were replaced by baseball , volleyball , basketball and football .
But the Russians use gymnastics as the first step in training for all other sports because it provides training in every basic quality except one , endurance .
The gymnast must develop strength , flexibility , coordination , timing , rhythm , courage , discipline , persistence and the desire for perfection .
In short , gymnastics uses every part of the body and requires a great deal of character as well .
The addition of endurance training later , when the body is mature enough to benefit from it without danger of injury , provides that final quality that makes the top athlete , soldier or citizen .
Another reason gymnastic study is valuable is that it can be started very early in life .
( An enterprising teacher or parent could start training a healthy child at the age of seven days .
Most Europeans have been exercising newborn infants for centuries .
) In most sports , as in most walks of life , the angels are on the side of those who begin young , and the Russian competitor of 16 has at least thirteen years of training behind him .
The American is very lucky if he has three .
If a nation wished to get a head start in physical fitness over all other nations , it would start its kindergarten students on a program of gymnastics the day they entered and thus eliminate a large number of the problems that plague American schools .
First of the problems attacked would be fatigue and emotional tension , since action relieves both .
Oddly enough , it is proven that there would be less reading difficulty .
Certainly there would be less anxiety , fewer accidents ( it is the clumsy child who sustains the worst injuries ) , and higher scholastic averages , since alert children work better .
Russia knows this , and that is why there were over 800,000 competing for places as candidates for the Olympic gymnastic team .
Eighty thousand won top honors and a chance to try for the team itself .
We could scarcely find eighty in our great land of over 180 million people .
And what has dancing to do with all this ? ?
A great deal .
Russia's young gymnasts have studied dance before having the rigorous training on apparatus .
Well-stretched , trained in posture and coordinated movement , and wedded to rhythm , they presented the audiences in Rome with one of the most beautiful sights ever seen at any Olympic contest .
American audiences in particular learned two valuable lessons .
They saw completely masculine and obviously virile men performing with incredible grace .
They were further stripped of old wive's tales by seeing the slender , lovely Russian girls performing feats requiring tremendous strength and with not one bulging muscle .
President Kennedy has asked that we become a physically fit nation .
If we wait until children are in junior high or high school , we will never manage it .
To be fit , one has to start early with young children , and today the only person who really reaches such children is the teacher of dance .
If the dance teachers of America make it their business to prepare their young charges for the gymnastics that must come some day if our schools are really responsible , we will be that much ahead .
School teachers , all too unprepared for the job they must do , will need demonstrators .
There should be youngsters who know how to do a headstand , and also how to help other children learn it .
They should know simple exercises that could prepare less fortunate children for the sports we will demand be taught .
Dance teachers can respond to President Kennedy's request not only through their regular dance work , but also through the kind of basic gymnastic work that makes for strength and flexibility .
Very little in today's living provides the strength we need and nothing provides the flexibility .
Dancers do have flexibility .
They often fail , however , to develop real abdominal , back , chest , shoulder and arm strength .
Ask any group of ballerinas to do ten push-ups or three chin-ups and the results , considering the amount of physical training they have had , will be very disappointing .
Even the boys will not be outstanding in these areas .
This isn't surprising when we consider that over 29 percent of the 11-year-old boys in America cannot chin themselves once , and that English school girls outdo them in almost every test ( even dashes and endurance ) .
The only area in which American boys hold their own is the baseball throw .
The chinning bar
For arm and shoulder strength a chinning bar is recommended .
It should be installed over a door that is in full view of everyone , and a chair should be placed under it , a little to one side .
Those children who can chin themselves should be told to do one chin-up each time they pass under it .
Those who are too weak , should climb on the chair and , starting at the top of the chin , let themselves slowly down .
When they can take ten seconds to accomplish the descent , they will have the strength to chin-up .
Parents should be informed about this system and encouraged to do the same with the whole family at home .
The horse kick
Arm , shoulder , chest , upper and lower back strength will be aided with the Horse kick .
Start on hands and feet .
Keeping the hands in the starting position , run in place to a quick rhythm .
After this has become easy , use slower and slower rhythms , kicking higher and higher .
Follow this by crossing from one corner of the room to the other on all fours , kicking as high as possible .
Push-ups
Push-ups are essential , but few have the strength for them at first .
Start on the knees in a large circle .
Fall slowly forward onto the hands and let the body down to rest on the floor .
Push back up and repeat .
Do this exercise six times each class period .
As strength improves start in a standing position with legs wide apart and upper body bent forward .
Start by falling forward to a point close to the feet , and , as strength improves , fall farther and farther out .
Try to push back to the stand position from the stretched position without any intermediate pushes from the hands .
The push-up itself can be taught by starting at the top of the push-up with legs spread wide .
Let the body down slowly , taking at least five seconds for the letting down .
Five of these done daily for about a week will develop the strength for one push-up .
Handstands
Handstands come after arms , chest and shoulders have developed at least a minimum of strength .
Of course those who have developed more will find them easier .
Start with the class standing in a circle , with weight on the right foot and the left extended a little way into the circle .
At first each child should do a kick-up by himself so that the teacher can determine those ready to work alone , and those who need help .
Drop both hands to the floor and at the same time kick the right foot up in back .
The left will follow at once .
The right will land first , followed by the left .
Return to the standing position .
Care should be taken to see that the hands are placed on the floor before the kick starts and also that the landing foot is brought as close to the hands as possible .
This will prevent flat falls and toe injuries .
Bare feet are better for such work than any form of slipper .
Eventually the class will be able to kick up high enough so that the teacher can catch the leading leg .
The child should then bring both legs together overhead , point the toes and tighten the seat muscles .
Be sure that the landing foot is brought close to the hands and that only one foot lands at a time .
Backbends
The backbend is of extreme importance to any form of free gymnastics , and , as with all acrobatics , the sooner begun the better the results .
Have the class lie supine with knees apart and bent .
Place flat palms on either side of the head a few inches away from the ears , fingers pointing toward the shoulders .
Arch the back upwards to make a bridge .
Be sure the head drops backward so that the child looks at the floor rather than toward the ceiling .
As flexibility improves , the feet will move closer to the hands and the bridge rise higher .
Later this can be combined with the handstand to provide a walkover .
Back circle
To further increase back flexibility , work on the back circle .
Have the class lie prone .
Place the hands in front of the chest .
Keep the legs straight and the toes pointed .
Straighten the arms slowly , this arches the back .
At the peak of the arch , tip the head back and bend the knees in an effort to touch toes to head .
Improvement can be measured by the lessening distance between toes and head .
Somersaults
The last essential to the beginner's gymnastic program is the somersault , or forward roll .
This used to be part of every child's bag of tricks , but few children can do it today ; ;
some are actually incapable of rolling forward and are completely confused when not sitting or standing upright .
For most small children , learning a forward roll is simply a matter of copying another child who can .
After it has been seen , have the child start on a mat on hands and knees ( a thin , inexpensive mat is quite sufficient for anything that does not require falling ) .
He places the hands on either side of the head , keeping the chin down on the chest .
He then pushes his seat into the air and the teacher guides it over .
One or two practice runs should be sufficient for solo .
If , however , the child is weak , overweight , or afraid , more help will be needed .
When the child raises his seat into the air , the teacher takes hold under both sides of the pelvis ; ;
then no matter what happens , the child's performance will be controlled .
By lifting the seat upwards a little , the weight is taken off the neck and the back is kept rounded .
These are beginnings , but correctly learned they prepare for satisfying and exciting stunts that can be performed by a strong , flexible body ( we are not talking of eccentric extremes ) .
Even if gymnastics are not the ultimate goal , the good tumbler will be a better dancer , a better athlete , and a human being with a greater margin of safety in any activity .
It is very important for parents to understand that early training is imperative .
And dancing school , so helpful in artistic and psychological development , also contributes to this essential early training -- and can contribute even more .
Every taxpayer is well aware of the vast size of our annual defense budget and most of our readers also realize that a large portion of these expenditures go for military electronics .
We have noted how some electronic techniques , developed for the defense effort , have evenutally been used in commerce and industry .
The host of novel applications of electronics to medical problems is far more thrilling because of their implication in matters concerning our health and vitality .
When we consider the electronic industry potential for human betterment , the prospect is staggering .
The author has recently studied the field of medical electronics and has been convinced that , in this area alone , the application of electronic equipment has enormous possibilities .
The benefits electronics can bring to bio-medicine may be greater by far than any previous medical discovery .
We use the term `` bio-medicine '' because of the close interrelation between biology and medical research .
Electronics has been applied to medicine for many years in the form of such familiar equipment as the x-ray machine , the electrocardiograph , and the diathermy machine .
Recently many doctors have installed ultrasonic vibration machines for deep massage of bruises , contusions , and simple bursitis .
Commonly used electronic devices which are found in practically every hospital are closed-circuit TV and audio systems for internal paging and instruction , along with radiation counters , timers , and similar devices .
In this article we will concentrate on the advances in the application of electronics in bio-medical research laboratories because this is where tomorrow's commonplace equipment originates .
From the wealth of material and the wide variety of different electronic techniques perfected in the past few years we have selected a few examples which appear to be headed for use in the immediate future and which offer completely new tools in medical research .
Ultraviolet microscopy
Many cells , bacteria , and other microorganisms are transparent to visible light and must be stained for microscopic investigation .
This stain often disrupts the normal cell activity or else colors only the outside .
A completely new insight into living cells and their structure will be possible by use of a new technique which replaces visible light with ultraviolet radiation and combines a microscope with a color-TV system to view the results .
Fig. 1 is a simplified block diagram of the ultraviolet microscopy system developed at the Medical Electronics Center of Rockefeller Institute .
By combining the talents of a medical man , Dr. Aterman , a biophysicist , Mr. Berkely , and an electronics expert , Dr. Zworykin , this novel technique has been developed which promises to open broad avenues to understanding life processes .
Three different wavelengths of ultraviolet radiation are selected by the variable filters placed in front of the three mercury xenon lights which serve as the ultraviolet sources .
These wavelengths are reflected in sequence through the specimen by the rotating mirror ; ;
the specimen is magnified by the microscope .
Instead of the observer's eye the image orthicon in the TV camera does the `` looking '' .
The microscope and orthicon are both selected to operate well into the ultraviolet spectrum , which means that all lenses must be quartz .
The video signal is amplified and then switched , in synchronism with the three ultraviolet light sources which are sequenced by the rotating mirror so that during one-twentieth of a second only one wavelength , corresponding to red , green , or blue , is seen .
( Note : Because of light leakage from one ultraviolet source to another , the lights are switched by a commutator-like assembly rotated by a synchronous motor .
This assembly also supplies a 20-cps switching gate for the electronics circuitry .
) This is the same system as was used in the field-sequential color-TV system which preceded the present simultaneous system .
Three separate amplifiers then drive a 21-inch tricolor tube .
The result is a color picture of the specimen where the primary colors correspond to the three different ultraviolet wavelengths .
Many of the cells and microorganisms which are transparent to visible light , absorb or reflect the much shorter wavelengths of the ultraviolet spectrum .
Different parts of these cells sometimes absorb or reflect different wavelengths so that it is often possible to see internal portions of cells in a different color .
Where the microscope under visible light may show only vague shadows or nothing at all , ultraviolet illumination and subsequent translation into a color TV picture reveal a wealth of detail .
At the present time the research team which pioneered this new technique is primarily interested in advancing and perfecting it .
Breathing -- electronically analyzed
The medical title of `` Lobar Ventilation In Man '' by Drs. C. J. Martin and A. C. Young , covers a brief paper which is one part of a much larger effort to apply electronics to the study of the respiratory process .
At the University of Washington Medical School , the electronics group has developed the `` Respiratory Gas Analyzer '' shown in Fig. 3 .
This unit , affectionately dubbed `` The Monster '' , can be wheeled to any convenient location and provides a wealth of information about the patient's breathing .
In the lower center rack an 8-channel recorder indicates the percentage of carbon dioxide and nitrogen from the upper and lower lobes of one lung , the total volume of inhalation per breath , the flow of air from both lobes , and the pressure of the two lobes with respect to each other .
Usually the patient breathes into a mouthpiece while walking a treadmill , standing still , or in some other medically significant position .
From the resulting data the doctor can determine lung defects with hitherto unknown accuracy and detail .
Heart-measuring techniques
The original electrocardiograph primarily indicates irregularities in the heartbeat , but today's techniques allow exact measurements of the flow of blood through the aorta , dimensioning of the heart and its chambers , and a much more detailed study of each heartbeat .
For many of these measurements the chest must be opened , but the blood vessels and the heart itself remain undisturbed .
A group of researchers at the University of Washington have given a paper which briefly outlines some of these techniques .
One simple method of measuring the expansion of the heart is to tie a thin rubber tube , filled with mercury , around the heart and record the change in resistance as the tube is stretched .
A balanced resistance bridge and a pen recorder are all the electronic instrumentation needed .
Sonar can be used to measure the thickness of the heart by placing small crystal transducers at opposite sides of the heart or blood vessel and exciting one with some pulsed ultrasonic energy .
The travel time of sound in tissue is about 1500 meters per second ; ;
thus it takes about 16 Msec. to traverse 25 mm. of tissue .
A sonar or radar-type of pulse generator and time-delay measuring system is required for body-tissue evaluation .
In addition to the heart and aorta , successful measurements of liver and spleen have also been made by this technique .
The Doppler effect , using ultrasonic signals , can be employed to measure the flow of blood without cutting into the blood vessel .
A still more sophisticated system has been devised for determining the effective power of the heart itself .
It uses both an ultrasonic dimensioning arrangement of the heart and a catheter carrying a thermistor inserted into the bloodstream .
The latter measures the heat carried away by the bloodstream as an indication of the velocity of the blood flow .
It is also possible to utilize a pressure transducer , mounted at the end of a catheter which is inserted into the heart's left ventricle , to indicate the blood pressure in the heart itself .
This pressure measurement may be made at the same time that the ultrasonic dimensioning measurement is made .
A simplified version of the instrumentation for this procedure is shown in Fig. 2 .
Outputs of the two systems are measured by a pulse-timing circuit and a resistance bridge , followed by a simple analogue computer which feeds a multichannel recorder .
From this doctors can read heart rate , change in diameter , pressure , and effective heart power .
Radio-transmitter pills
Several years ago headlines were made by a small radio transmitter capsule which could be swallowed by the patient and which would then radio internal pressure data to external receivers .
This original capsule contained a battery and a transistor oscillator and was about 1 cm. in diameter .
Battery life limited the use of this `` pill '' to about 8 to 30 hours maximum .
A refinement of this technique has been described by Drs. Zworykin and Farrar and Mr. Berkely of the Medical Electronics Center of the Rockefeller Institute .
In this novel arrangement the `` pill '' is much smaller and contains only a resonant circuit in which the capacitor is formed by a pressure-sensing transducer .
As shown in Fig. 4 , an external antenna is placed over or around the patient and excited 3000 times a second with short 400-kc. bursts .
The energy received by the `` pill '' causes the resonant circuit to `` ring '' on after the burst and this `` ringing '' takes place at the resonant frequency of the `` pill '' .
These frequencies are amplified and detected by the FM receiver after each burst of transmitted energy and , after the `` pill '' has been calibrated , precise internal pressure indications can be obtained .
One of the advantages of this method is that the `` pill '' can remain in the patient for several days , permitting observation under natural conditions .
Applications to organs other than the gastrointestinal tract are planned for future experiments .
Sonar in medical research
One of the most gratifying applications of an important technique of submarine detection is in the exploration of the human body .
Our readers are familiar with the principles of sonar where sound waves are sent out in water and the echoes then indicate submerged objects .
Various methods of pulsing , scanning , and displaying these sound waves are used to detect submarines , map ocean floors , and even communicate under water .
In medicine the frequencies are much higher , transducers and the sonar beams themselves are much smaller , and different scanning techniques may be used , but the principles involved are the same as in sonar .
Because the body contains so much liquid , transmission of ultrasonic signals proceeds fairly well in muscles and blood vessels .
Bones and cartilage transmit poorly and tend to reflect the ultrasonic signals .
Based on this phenomenon , a number of investigators have used this method to `` look through '' human organs .
A good example of the results obtainable with ultrasonic radiation is contained in papers presented by Dr. G. Baum who has explored the human eye .
He can diagnose detachment of the retina where conventional methods indicate blindness due to glaucoma .
The method used to scan the eye ultrasonically is illustrated in Fig. 6 .
The transducer is coupled to the body through a water bath , not shown .
For display , Dr. Baum uses a portion of an Af , an airborne radar indicator , and then photographs the screen to obtain a permanent record .
A typical `` sonogram '' of a human eye , together with a description of the anatomical parts , is shown in Fig. 5 .
The frequency used for these experiments is 15 mc. and the transducer is a specially cut crystal with an epoxy lens capable of providing beam diameters smaller than one millimeter .
The transducer itself moves the beam in a sector scan , just like a radar antenna , while the entire transducer structure is moved over a 90-degree arc in front of the eye to `` look into '' all corners .
The total picture is only seen by the camera which integrates the many sector scans over the entire 90-degree rotation period .
Drs. Howry and Holmes at the University of Colorado Medical School have applied the same sonar technique to other areas of soft tissue and have obtained extremely good results .
By submerging the patient in a tub and rotating the transducer while the scanning goes on , they have been able to get cross-section views of the neck , as shown in Fig. 7 , as well as many other hitherto impossible insights .
As mentioned before , bone reflects the sound energy and in Fig. 7 the portion of the spine shows as the black area in the center .
Arteries and veins are apparent by their black , blood-filled centers and the surrounding white walls .
A cross-section of a normal lower human leg is shown in Fig. 8 with the various parts labeled .
Oersted's boyhood represented a minimal chance of either attaining greatness or serving his people so well and over so long a span of life .
He was born in the small Danish town of Rudkoebing on the island of Langeland in the south-central part of Denmark on August 14 , 1777 .
His father Soeren was the village apothecary whose slender income made it difficult to feed his family , let alone educate them in a town without even a school .
The two older boys , Hans and Anders , his junior by a year , therefore went daily to the home of a warm and friendly wigmaker nearby for instruction in German ; ;
his wife taught the two boys to read and write Danish .
Other brothers later joined them for instruction with Oldenburg , the wigmaker , and also arithmetic was added to Bible reading , German , and Danish in the informal curriculum .
Oldenburg's contributions were soon exhausted and the boys had to turn to a wider circle of the town's learned , such as the pastor , to supplement the simple teaching .
From the town surveyor , Hans learned drawing and mathematics and , from a university student , some academic subjects .
The mayor of the town taught them English and French .
Whatever Hans or Anders learned separately they passed on to each other ; ;
they read every book that they could borrow in the village .
At 12 , Hans was sufficiently mature to help his father in the apothecary shop , which helped stimulate his interest in medicine and science .
His earlier love for literature and history remained with him for his entire life .
In 1793 the brothers decided to enter the University of Copenhagen ( founded in 1479 ) and the following spring found them at the university preparing to matriculate for the autumn session .
While Hans devoted himself to the sciences of medicine , physics , and astronomy , his brother studied law .
The brothers continued to help each other during their studies , sharing a joint purse , lodging together in the dormitory and dining together at the home of their aunt .
They supplemented their income by small government assistance , by tutoring and economizing wherever they could .
So impressive were those serious years of study at the university that Hans later wrote , `` to be perfectly free , the young man must revel in the great kingdom of thought and imagination ; ;
there is a struggle there , in which , if he falls , it is easy for him to rise again , there is freedom of utterance there , which draws after it no irreparable consequences on society .
I lived in this onward-driving contest where each day overcame a new difficulty , gained a new truth , or banished a previous error '' .
He openly proclaimed his pleasure in lecturing and writing about science .
In this third year at the university , Hans , in 1797 , was awarded the first important token of recognition , a gold medal for his essay on `` Limits Of Poetry And Prose '' .
He completed his training in pharmacy also , taking his degree with high honors in 1797 , and in 1799 was awarded the degree of Doctor of Philosophy along with a prize for an essay in medicine .
He proposed a fresh theory of alkalis which later was accepted in chemical practices .
Ferment of scientific activity
Hans' student days were at a time when Europe was in a new intellectual ferment following the revolutions in America and in France , Germany and Italy were rising from divisive nationalisms and a strong wave of intellectual awareness was sweeping the Continent .
The new century opened with Oersted beginning his professional career in charge of an apothecary shop in Copenhagen and as lecturer at the university .
He was stirred by the announcement of Volta's discovery of chemical electricity and he immediately applied the voltaic pile to experiments with acids and alkalis .
The following year he devoted to the customary `` Wanderjahr '' , traveling in Germany , France , and the Netherlands , meeting the philosophers Schelling , Fichte , and Tieck .
He also met Count Rumford ( born Benjamin Thompson in Woburn , Mass. ) who was then serving the Elector of Bavaria , and the physicist Ritter ; ;
these were Oersted's main contacts in science .
From Gottingen ( 1801 ) where he stayed for 10 days , he wrote , `` The first question asked everywhere is about galvanism .
As everybody is curious to see the battery of glass tubes I have invented , I have had quite a small one made here of four glass tubes ( in Copenhagen I used 30 ) and intend to carry it with me '' .
Oersted joined Ritter at Jena and stayed with him for 3 weeks , continuing their correspondence after he left .
With Ritter he was exposed to the fantastic profusion of ideas that stormed through his host's fertile but disorganized mind .
Oersted remodeled Ritter's notes into an essay in French which was submitted to the Institut De France for its annual prize of 3,000 francs .
The sound discoveries of this quixotic genius were so diluted by those of fantasy that the prize was never awarded to him .
In May , 1803 , Ritter , in another flight of fancy , wrote to Oersted a letter that contained a remarkable prophecy .
He related events on earth to periodic celestial phenomena and indicated that the years of maximum inclination of the ecliptic coincided with the years of important electrical discoveries .
Thus , 1745 corresponded to the invention of the `` Leiden '' jar by Kleist , 1764 that of the electrophorus by Wilcke , 1782 produced the condenser of Volta , and 1801 the voltaic pile .
Ritter proceeded , `` You now emerge into a new epoch in which late in the year 1819 or 1820 , you will have to reckon .
This we might well witness '' .
Ritter died in 1810 and Oersted not only lived to see the event occur but was the author of it .
In 1803 Oersted returned to Copenhagen and applied for the university's chair in physics but was rejected because he was probably considered more a philosopher than a physicist .
However , he continued experimenting and lecturing , publishing the results of his experiments in German and Danish periodicals .
In 1806 his ambition was realized and he became professor of physics at the Copenhagen University , though not realizing full professorship ( ordinarius ) until 1817 .
During Oersted's attendance at the university , it was poorly equipped with physical apparatus for experimenting in the sciences .
He was , however , fortunate in his contact with Prof. J. G. L. Manthey ( 1769-1842 ) , teacher of chemistry , who , in addition to his academic chair , was also proprietor of the `` Lion Pharmacy '' in Copenhagen where Oersted assisted him .
Manthey maintained a valuable collection of physical and chemical apparatus which was at Oersted's disposal during and after his graduation .
In 1800 , Manthey went abroad and Oersted was appointed manager of the Lion Pharmacy .
In February 1801 , Oersted did manage to experiment with physical apparatus and reported experiments made with a voltaic battery of 600 plates of zinc and silver and of later experiments with a battery of 60 plates of zinc and lead .
In the following year , 1803 , Oersted , simultaneously with Davy , discovered that acids increased the strength of a voltaic battery more than did salts .
Eager as he was to pursue this promising line , he was so loaded down with the management of the pharmacy and lectures in the medical and pharmaceutical faculties at the university that he could devote only Sunday afternoons to `` galvanizing '' .
He assumed his academic career with the same intensity and thoroughness that had marked every step in his rise from boyhood .
The university was the only one in Denmark and the status of professor represented the upper social level .
His broad interest in literary , political , and philosophical movements opened many doors to him .
His friends were numerous and their ties to him were strong .
The years 1812 and 1813 saw him in Germany and France again , but on this visit to Berlin he did not seek out the philosophers as he had on his first journey .
In Berlin he published his views of the chemical laws of nature in German and this was issued in French translation ( Paris , 1813 ) under the title Recherches Sur l'identite Des Forces chimiques et electriques , a work held in very high esteem by the new generation of research chemists .
His interest in finding a relationship between voltaic electricity and magnetism is here first indicated .
Chapter 8 , is entitled `` On Magnetism '' and in it are included such remarks as , `` One has always been tempted to compare the magnetic forces with the electrical forces .
The great resemblance between electrical and magnetic attractions and repulsions and the similarity of their laws necessarily would bring about this comparison .
It is true , that nothing has been found comparable with electricity by communication ; ;
but the phenomena observed had such a degree of analogy to those depending on electrical distribution that one could not find the slightest difference .
The form of galvanic activity is halfway between the magnetic form and the electrical form .
There , forces are more latent than in electricity , and less than in magnetism .
But in such an important question , we would be satisfied if the judgment were that the principal objection to the identity of forces which produce electricity and magnetism were only a difficulty , and not a thing which is contrary to it .
One could also add to these analogies that steel loses its magnetism by heat , which proves that steel becomes a better conductor through a rise in temperature , just as electrical bodies do .
It is also found that magnetism exists in all bodies of nature , as proven by Bruckmann and Coulomb .
By that , one feels that magnetic forces are as general as electrical forces .
An attempt should be made to see if electricity , in its most latent stage , has any action on the magnet as such '' .
His plan and intent were clearly charted .
Oersted returned in 1814 and resumed an active part in university and political discussions .
In one debate he supported the freedom of judgment as opposed to dogma , in another he held that the practice of science was in fact an act of religious worship .
He continued as a popular lecturer .
He devised a detonating fuse in which a short wire was caused to glow by an electric current .
In 1819 under royal command he undertook a very successful geological expedition to Bornholm , one of the Danish islands , being one of three scientists in the expedition .
It was with the assistance of one of the members of this expedition , Lauritz Esmarch , that Oersted succeeded in producing light by creating an electric discharge in mercury vapor through which an electric current was made to flow .
Together they also developed a new form of voltaic cell in which the wooden trough was replaced by one of copper , thereby producing stronger currents .
Esmarch was among those who witnessed Oersted's first demonstration of his discovery .
Discovery of electromagnetism
the association between electric ( both electrostatic and voltaic ) forces and magnetic forces had been recognized by investigators for many decades .
Electrical literature contained numerous references to lightning that had magnetized iron and had altered the polarity of compass needles .
In the late 1700's Beccaria and Van Marum , among others , had magnetized iron by sending an electrostatic charge through it .
Beccaria had almost stumbled on a lead to the relationship between electricity and magnetism when a discharge from a Leyden jar was sent transversally through a piece of watch-spring steel making its ends magnetic .
The resulting magnetic effect proved stronger than when the discharge was made lengthwise .
The experiments of Romagnosi and others have already been noted but no one had determined the cause-and-effect relationship between these two primary forces .
Oersted's own earlier experiments were unimpressive , possibly because he had , like other experimenters , laid the conducting wire across the compass needle instead of parallel with it .
The sequence of events leading to his important discovery still remains ambiguous but it seems that one of the advanced students at the university related that the first direct event that led to the publication of Oersted's discovery occurred during a private lecture made before a group of other advanced students in the spring of 1820 .
At this lecture Oersted happened to place the conducting wire over and parallel to a magnetic needle .
Knowing specifically what the many feed additives can do and how and when to feed them can make a highly competitive business more profitable for beef , dairy , and sheep men .
The target chart quickly and briefly tells you which additives do what .
All the additives listed here are sanctioned for use by the Food and Drug Administration of the federal government .
All comments concerning effectiveness and use of drugs have been carefully reviewed by a veterinary medical officer with Aj .
This article assumes that the rations you are feeding your beef , dairy cattle , and sheep are adequately balanced with protein , vitamins , and minerals .
The drug's chemical name is listed , since most states require feed processors to use this name instead of the trade name on the feed tag .
In some instances , the trade name is shown in parentheses following the chemical name .
This indicates that this drug is being marketed under one trade name only or state regulatory organizations have approved its use on the feed tag .
Here's your feed additive guide for ruminants :
drug's chemical name :
Oxytetracycline hydrochloride ( Terramycin ) what it does :
Increases rate of gain and improves feed efficiency , aids in the prevention or treatment ( depending on level fed ) of the early stages of shipping fever , prevents or treats bacterial diarrhea , and aids in reducing incidence of bloat and liver abscesses .
Milk production may be increased by the anti-infective properties of this drug .
How to feed : beef cattle ( finishing ration )
-- To increase rate of gain and improve feed efficiency , feed 75 milligrams per head in daily supplement .
Calves
-- To increase rate of gain and improve feed efficiency , feed 10 to 25 grams per ton of complete feed .
As an aid in the prevention of bacterial diarrhea ( scours ) , feed 50 grams per ton of complete feed .
For the treatment of bacterial scours , feed 100-200 grams .
For prevention or treatment of bacterial scours , feed 0.1 to 5 milligrams per pound of body weight daily .
Beef and dairy
-- As an aid in reducing incidence and severity of bloat , provide 75 milligrams of oxytetracycline hydrochloride per animal daily .
To reduce incidence of liver abscesses , supply 75 milligrams of oxytetracycline activity per head daily .
To prevent or treat bacterial diarrhea , furnish 0.1 to 5 milligrams per pound of body weight daily .
For the prevention or treatment of the early stages of shipping fever complex , increase feeding level to 0.5 to 2 grams per head per day .
For the best results , feed this level to cattle 3 to 5 days preceding shipment and/or 3 to 5 days following their arrival in your feed lot .
For treatment of shipping fever , this level should be fed at the onset of the disease symptoms until symptoms disappear .
Sheep
-- To increase rate of gain and improve feed efficiency , feed 10 to 20 grams per ton .
As an aid in the prevention of bacterial diarrhea ( scours ) , feed 50 grams per ton .
Drug's chemical name :
Chlortetracycline ( Aureomycin ) what it does :
Increases gains , improves feed efficiency , and reduces losses from bacterial infections listed under `` How To Feed '' section .
Milk production may be increased by the anti-infective properties of this drug .
How to feed : beef
-- Not less than 70 milligrams of Aureomycin per head daily to aid in the prevention of liver abscesses in feed-lot beef cattle .
Prevention of bacterial pneumonia , shipping fever , as an aid in reduction of losses due to respiratory infections ( infectious rhinotracheitis -- shipping fever complex ) .
Feed at level of 70 milligrams per head per day .
Treatment of the above diseases : 350 milligrams per head per day for 30 days only .
For prevention of these diseases during periods of stress such as shipping , excessive handling , vaccination , extreme weather conditions : 350 milligrams per head per day for 30 days only .
As an aid in reducing bacterial diarrhea and preventing foot rot , feed not less than 0.1 milligram per pound of body weight daily .
To aid in the prevention of anaplasmosis , feed not less than 0.5 milligram per pound of body weight daily .
Dairy
-- For calves , feed not less than 50 grams of Aureomycin per ton complete feed as an aid in preventing bacterial diarrhea and foot rot .
For cows , feed providing an intake of 0.1 milligram of Aureomycin per pound of body weight daily aids in the reduction of bacterial diarrhea , in the prevention of foot rot , and in the reduction of losses due to respiratory infection ( infectious rhinotracheitis -- shipping fever complex ) .
Sheep
-- As an aid in reducing losses due to enterotoxemia ( overeating disease ) , feed a complete ration containing not less than 20 and not more than 50 grams of Aureomycin per ton .
To reduce vibrionic abortion in breeding sheep , feed 80 milligrams per head daily .
Drug's chemical name :
Dynafac .
What it does :
An aid in getting cattle and sheep on full feed , in improving feed conversion and growth , in reducing bloat and founder , and in controlling scours .
How to feed : beef and dairy calves
-- 0.2 gram Dynafac per head daily ( 1 gram of premix per head daily ) for promoting growth , feed conversion , bloom , and full feed earlier .
Feeder cattle
-- Dynafac in a complete ration or 0.3 to 0.4 gram per head per day ( 200 grams of premix per ton complete ration or equivalent .
Animals consuming 20 pounds feed daily receive 2 grams Dynafac ) .
Aids in minimizing the occurrence of feed-lot bloat due to high consumption of concentrates .
Sheep and lambs
-- 1.0 gram premix per head per day for promoting growth , feed conversion , and getting lambs on full feed earlier .
Drug's chemical name :
Diethylstilbestrol .
What it does :
Increases rate of gain and improves feed efficiency .
How to feed : beef cattle
-- 10 milligrams of diethylstilbestrol per head daily .
This may be incorporated in complete feeds at the level of 0.4 milligram of diethylstilbestrol per pound of ration -- assuming animal consumes about 25 pounds daily .
The drug is also incorporated in supplements .
These are to be fed at a rate to provide 10 milligrams DES per head daily .
The recommended 10-milligram daily intake level should be maintained .
It may be incorporated into cattle creep feeds in levels from 1.0 to 1.5 milligrams of diethylstilbestrol per pound of feed .
Sheep fattening rations
-- The recommended level for sheep is 2 milligrams daily , and this level should be maintained .
Include supplement containing 0.4 to 2 milligrams per pound to provide 2 milligrams per head per day .
Caution :
Discontinue medication 48 hours before slaughter .
Drug's chemical name :
Hydroxazine hydrochloride .
What it does :
Improves growth rate and feed efficiency of fattening beef animals .
How to feed :
At the rate of 2-1/2 milligrams per head per day .
Drug's chemical name :
Iodinated casein .
What it does :
Drug elevates the metabolic rate of the cow .
Fed to dairy cattle to increase milk production and butterfat percentage .
How to feed :
1 to 1-1/2 grams per 100 pounds of body weight .
Caution :
Cows receiving drug may not be officially tested under breed registry testing programs .
Drug's chemical name :
Bacterial and fungal enzymes .
( These enzyme preparations appear on today's feed tags as fermentation extracts of Bacillus subtilis , Apergillus orzae , Niger , and Flavus .
) what it does :
Improves utilization of low-moisture corn ( less than 14% ) .
How to feed :
Greatest benefits have been associated with feeding low-moisture corn in beef-feeding programs .
Several firms are merchandising enzyme preparation through feed manufacturers .
Drug's chemical name :
Ronnel .
What it does :
Effectively controls cattle grubs which damage hides and can reduce gains .
How to feed :
Drug is added to either a protein or mineral supplement for a period of 7 or 14 days .
Follow manufacturer's recommendation carefully .
Caution :
Do not feed to dairy cows and do not feed within 60 days of slaughter .
Drug's chemical name :
Methyl polysiloxanes .
What it does :
Aids in preventing foamy bloat .
How to feed :
For prevention of foamy bloat , feed at a rate of 0.5 to 2 milligrams per head per day in mineral or salt or feed .
For treatment of bloat , drug is fed at a higher level .
Drug's chemical name :
Phenothiazine .
What it does :
Reduces losses from stomach , hookworm , and nodular worms by interfering with reproduction of the female worm by reducing the number of eggs laid and essentially rendering all laid eggs sterile .
Also , aids in the control of horn flies by preventing them from hatching in the droppings .
How to feed :
Treat cattle with 10 grams per 100 pounds body weight with a maximum of 70 grams per animal .
Then , for the above parasites , feed continuously at these levels : Feeder cattle -- 2-5 grams of phenothiazine daily ; ;
beef calves -- to 1.5 grams daily depending on weight of animal .
Treat lambs with 12 grams per head for lambs weighing up to 50 pounds ; ;
treat lambs over 50 pounds and adults with 24 grams per animal .
For continuous control , feed 1 part phenothiazine to 9 parts minerals or salts .
To include in feed , add phenothiazine to supply 0.5 to 1 gram per sheep daily .
Caution :
Continuous administration is not recommended for lactating cows .
Following single-dose treatment , milk should be discarded for 4 days following treatment .
Drug's chemical name :
Procaine penicillin .
What it does :
Aids in reducing the incidence and severity of bloat in beef or dairy cattle on legume pasture .
How to feed :
Feed 75,000 units or 75 milligrams per head daily .
Drug's chemical name :
Sodium propionate .
What it does :
For the prevention or treatment of acetonemia ( ketosis ) in dairy cows .
How to feed :
For the prevention of acetonemia ( ketosis ) feed 1/4 pound per day beginning at calving and continuing for 6 weeks .
For the treatment of ketosis feed 1/4 to 1/2 pound per day for 10 days .
Drug's chemical name :
Sulfaquinoxaline .
What it does :
Helps control shipping dysentery and coccidiosis in lambs .
How to feed : lambs
-- feed at level for 2 or 3 days .
Drug's chemical name :
Dried rumen bacteria .
What it does :
Stimulates rumen activity .
How to feed :
Incorporated in commercially prepared feed at proper levels .
Drug's chemical name :
Calcium and sodium lactate .
What it does :
Prevents and treats acetonemia ( ketosis ) in dairy cows .
How to feed :
For prevention of ketosis , feed 1/4 pound per head daily for 6 weeks commencing at calving time .
For treatment of ketosis , feed 1/2 pound daily until symptoms disappear .
Then , feed preventive dose until 6 weeks after calving .
Drug's chemical name :
Promazine hydrochloride .
What it does :
A tranquilizer fed to cattle ( other than lactating dairy cows ) prior to their being subjected to stress conditions such as vaccinating , shipping , weaning calves , and excessive handling .
How to feed :
Not less than milligram but not more than 1.25 milligrams of additive per pound of body weight .
Caution :
Additive should not be fed 72 hours before animals are slaughtered .
There are three principal feed bunk types for dairy and beef cattle : ( 1 ) Fence-line bunks -- cattle eat from one side while feed is put in from the opposite side of the fence by self-unloading wagons ; ;
( 2 ) Mechanized bunks -- they sit within the feed lot , are filled by a mechanical conveyor above feeding surface ; ;
( 3 ) Special bunks -- as discussed here , they permit cattle to eat from all sides .
Feed is put in with an elevator .
Several materials or combinations of materials can be used to construct a satisfactory feed bunk .
The selection of materials depends on skills of available labor for installation , cost of materials available locally , and your own preference .
No one material is best for all situations .
Selecting bunks by economic comparison is usually an individual problem .
Fence-line feeding .
Animals eat only from one side , so the fence-line bunk must be twice as long as the mechanical bunk .
These bunks also serve as a fence , so part of the additional cost must be attributed to the fence .
Because of their location , on the edge of the feed lot , fence-line bunks are not in the way of mechanical manure removal .
Filling these bunks by the same self-unloading wagons used to fill silos spreads cost of the wagons over more time and operations .
All-weather roads must be provided next to the feeding floor so access will be possible all year .
This will be a problem in areas of heavy snowfall .
Marketing in the new decade will be no picnic -- for the sixties will present possibly the most intense competitive activity that you have experienced in the last 20-25 yrs. .
Why ? ?
Companies of all types have made great advances in production capabilities and efficiencies -- in modern equipment and new processes , enlarged R & D facilities , faster new product development .
Many companies have upgraded their sales manpower and tested new selling , distribution , and promotion techniques to gain a bigger competitive edge .
Given this kind of business climate , what competitive marketing problems will your company face in the next 10 yrs. ? ?
Based on our experience with clients , , we see 14 major problems which fall into three broad groups -- the market place itself , marketing methods , and marketing management .
1 .
Problems in the market
greater price-consciousness .
There has been an intensification of price-consciousness in recent years ; ;
there is every indication it will continue .
Frequently , wittingly or unwittingly , price-consciousness has been fostered by manufacturers , distributors , and dealers .
Despite generally good levels of income , we see greater price pressures than ever before -- traveling back along the chain from consumer to distributor to manufacturer .
Here are some key areas to examine to make sure your pricing strategy will be on target :
Has the probable price situation in your field been forecast as a basis for future planning ? ?
Have cost studies been made of every phase of your operation to determine what might be done if things get worse ? ?
Have you actually checked out ( not just mentally tested ) different selling approaches designed to counter the price competition problem ? ?
Increased customer sophistication .
Average consumer is becoming more sophisticated regarding product and advertising claims , partly because of widespread criticism of such assertions .
This problem can force a change in marketing approach in many kinds of businesses .
Have you examined this problem of increasing consumer sophistication from the standpoint of your own company ? ?
Greater demand for services .
Need for service is here to stay -- and the problem is going to be tougher to solve in the sixties .
There are two reasons for this .
First , most products tend to become more complex .
Second , in a competitive market , the customer feels his weight and throws it around .
Providing good customer service requires as thorough a marketing and general management planning job as the original selling of the product .
Too often it is thought of at the last moment of new product introduction .
Good service starts with product design and planning : Many products seem to be designed for a production economy , not for a service one .
Proper follow-through requires training your own sales organization , and your distributor organizations , not only in the techniques but also in good customer relations .
Have you assessed the importance of service and given it proper attention ? ?
Wider discretionary choices for customers .
In spending his money today , the consumer is pulled in many directions .
To the manufacturer of the more convenient-type product -- the purchase of which can be switched , delayed , or put off entirely -- the implications are important .
Your competition is now proportionately greater -- you are competing not only against manufacturers in the same field but also against a vast array of manufacturers of other appealing consumer products .
Many industry trade associations are developing campaigns to protect or enhance the share of the consumer's dollar being spent on their particular products .
Has your company thought through its strategy in this whole `` discretionary buying '' area ? ?
Geographic shift of customers .
The trends have been in evidence for many years -- population shifts to the Southwest and Far West , and from city to suburbs .
These shifts will continue in the next 10 yrs. .
Have you considered the implications of continuing geographic shifts in terms of sales force allocation , strength of distributor organizations , and even plant location ? ?
Market concentration and distribution in fewer accounts .
We have already witnessed great changes through mergers and acquisitions in the food industry -- at both the manufacturing and retail ends .
Instead of relatively small sales to many accounts , there are now larger sales to or through fewer accounts .
The change may require different products , pricing , packaging , warehousing , salesmanship , advertising and executive attention -- practically every link in the marketing network may have to be adjusted .
Have you examined these trends , forecast the effects , and planned your marketing strategy to compete effectively under changing circumstances ? ?
2 .
Problems in marketing methods
more private label competition .
In the area of private label competition , it is logical to expect a continuation of trends which have been under way during the first decade .
As mass dealer and distributor organizations grow in size , there is every reason to expect them to try to share in the manufacturer's as well as the distributor's profits -- which is , in effect , what the sale of private brands tends to do .
Average manufacturer frequently has helped build private brand business , delivering largely the same qualities and styles in private brand merchandise as in branded .
Moreover , the larger and more aggressive mass distribution outlets and chain stores have insisted on high quality -- and the customer seems to have caught on .
If you are up against private brand competition , have you formulated a long-term program for researching and strengthening your market position ? ?
If private brand competition hasn't been felt in your product field as yet , have you thought how you will cope with it if and when it does appear ? ?
Less personal salesmanship .
Display merchandising , backed by pre-selling through advertising and promotion , will continue to make strides in the sixties .
It has multiple implications and possible headaches for your marketing program .
How can you cash in on this fast-growing type of outlet and still maintain relationships with older existing outlets which are still important ? ?
If you have a higher-quality product , how can you make it stand out -- justify its premium price -- without the spoken word ? ?
Salesmanship is still necessary , but it's a different brand of salesmanship .
Have you carefully examined the selling techniques which best suit your products ? ?
Have you studied the caliber and sales approaches of your sales force in relation to requirements for effective marketing ? ?
Are you experimenting with different selling slants in developing new customers ? ?
Higher costs of distribution generally .
Some distribution costs are kept up by competitive pressure , some by the fact that the customers have come to expect certain niceties and flourishes .
No manufacturer has taken the initiative in pointing out the costs involved .
The use of bulk handling is continuously growing .
Computers are being used to keep branch inventories at more workable levels .
`` Selective selling '' -- concentrating sales on the larger accounts -- has been used effectively by some manufacturers .
There may be possible economies at any one of a number of links in your marketing and distribution chain .
Do you have a program for scrutinizing all these links regularly and carefully -- and with some imagination ? ?
In your sales force , will a smaller number of higher-priced , high-quality salesmen serve you best , or can you make out better with a larger number of lower-paid salesmen ? ?
Will your trade customers settle for less attention and fewer frills in return for some benefit they can share ? ?
In one company covering the country with a high-quality sales force of 10 men , the president personally phones each major account every 6 mos. .
As a result , distribution costs were cut , customer relations improved .
Distribution costs are almost bound to increase in the sixties -- and you will never know what you can do to control them unless you study each element and experiment with alternative ways of doing the job .
Higher costs of advertising and promotion .
From the manufacturer's point of view , the increasing cost of advertising and promotion is a very real problem to be faced in the sixties .
It is accentuated by the need for pre-selling goods , and private label competition .
How much fundamental thinking and research has your company done on its advertising program ? ?
Are you following competition willy-nilly -- trying to match dollar for dollar -- or are you experimenting with new means for reaching and influencing consumers ? ?
Have you evaluated the proper place of advertising and all phases of promotion in your total marketing program -- from the standpoint of effort , money , and effectiveness ? ?
Increasing tempo of new product development .
Practically all forecasts mention new and exciting products on the horizon .
Will you be out in the market place with some of these sales-building new products ? ?
If competition beats you to it , this exciting new product era can have real headaches in store .
On the other hand , the process of obsoleting an old product and introducing the new one is usually mighty expensive .
As markets become larger and marketing more complex , the costs of an error become progressively larger .
Is your R & D or product development program tuned in to the commercial realities of the market ? ?
Are there regular communications from the field , or meetings of sales and marketing personnel with R & D people ? ?
Technical knowledge is a wonderful thing , but it's useless unless it eventually feeds the cash register .
Are there individuals in your organization who can shepherd a new product through to commercialization ; ;
who can develop reliable estimates of sales volume , production , and distribution costs ; ;
and translate the whole into profit and loss and balance sheet figures which management can act on with some assurance ? ?
We have seen good new products shelved because no one had the assignment to develop such facts and plans -- and management couldn't make up its mind .
3 .
Problems in marketing management
shortage of skilled salesmen .
There is a shortage of salesmen today .
In the future , quantitative demand will be greater because of the expansion of the economy , and the qualitative need will be greater still .
While many companies have done fine work in developing sales personnel , much of it has been product rather than sales training .
Nor has the training been enough in relation to the need .
Most marketing people agree it is going to take redoubled efforts to satisfy future requirements .
Have you estimated your sales manpower needs for the future ( both quantitatively and qualitatively ) ? ?
Has your company developed selection and training processes that are geared to providing the caliber of salesmen you will need in the next 10 yrs. ? ?
Shortage of sales management talent .
With the growing complexity of markets and intensity of competition , sales management , whether at the district , region or headquarters level , is a tough job today -- and it will be tougher in the future .
Men qualified for the broader task of marketing manager are even more scarce due to the demanding combination of qualifications called for by this type of management work .
The growth of business has outdistanced the available supply , and the demand will continue to exceed the supply in the sixties .
Does your company have a program for selecting and developing sales and marketing management personnel for the longer term ? ?
Does your management climate and your management compensation plan attract and keep top-notch marketing people ? ?
Complexity of complete marketing planning .
Every single problem touched on thus far is related to good marketing planning .
`` Hip-pocket '' tactics are going to be harder to apply .
Many food and beverage companies are already on a highly planned basis .
They have to be .
With greater investments in plant facilities , with automation growing , you can't switch around , either in volume or in product design , as much as was formerly possible -- or at least not as economically .
Are planning and strategy development emphasized sufficiently in your company ? ?
We find too many sales and marketing executives so burdened with detail that they are short-changing planning .
Are annual marketing plans reviewed throughout your management group to get the perspective of all individuals and get everyone on the marketing team ? ?
Do you have a long-term ( 5- or 10-yr. ) marketing program ? ?
The key to effective marketing is wrapped up in defining your company's marketing problems realistically .
Solutions frequently suggest themselves when you accurately pinpoint your problems , whether they be in the market , in marketing methods or in marketing management .
If companies will take the time to give objective consideration to their major problems and to the questions they provoke , then a long constructive step will have been taken toward more effective marketing in next decade .
The controversy of the last few years over whether architects or interior designers should plan the interiors of modern buildings has brought clearly into focus one important difference of opinion .
The architects do not believe that the education of the interior designer is sufficiently good or sufficiently extended to compare with that of the architect and that , therefore , the interior designer is incapable of understanding the architectural principles involved in planning the interior of a building .
Ordinary politeness may have militated against this opinion being stated so badly but anyone with a wide acquaintance in both groups and who has sat through the many round tables , workshops or panel discussions -- whatever they are called -- on this subject will recognize that the final , boiled down crux of the matter is education .
It is true that most architectural schools have five year courses , some even have six or more .
The element of public danger which enters so largely into architectural certification , however , would demand a prolonged study of structure .
This would , naturally , lengthen their courses far beyond the largely esthetic demands of interior designer's training .
We may then dismiss the time difference between these courses and the usual four year course of the interior design student as not having serious bearing on the subject .
The real question that follows is -- how are those four years used and what is their value as training ? ?
The American Institute of Interior Designers has published a recommended course for designers and a percentage layout of such a course .
An examination of some forty catalogs of schools offering courses in interior design , for the most part schools accredited by membership in the National Association of Schools of Art , and a further `` on the spot '' inspection of a number of schools , show their courses adhere pretty closely to the recommendations .
One or two of the schools have a five year curriculum , but the usual pattern of American education has limited most of them to the four-year plan which seems to be the minimum in acceptable institutions .
The suggested course of the A.I.D. was based on the usual course offered and on the opinion of many educators as to curricular necessities .
Obviously , the four year provision limits this to fundamentals and much desirable material must be eliminated .
Without comparing the relative merits of the two courses -- architecture versus interior design -- let us examine the educational needs of the interior designer .
To begin with , what is an interior designer ? ?
`` The Dictionary Of Occupational Titles '' published by the U. S. Department of Labor describes him as follows : `` Designs , plans and furnishes interiors of houses , commercial and institutional structures , hotels , clubs , ships , theaters , as well as set decorations for motion picture arts and television .
Makes drawings and plans of rooms showing placement of furniture , floor coverings , wall decorations , and determines color schemes .
Furnishes complete cost estimates for clients approval .
Makes necessary purchases , places contracts , supervises construction , installation , finishing and placement of furniture , fixtures and other correlated furnishings , and follows through to completion of project '' .
In addition to this the U. S. Civil Service Bureau , when examining applicants for government positions as interior designers , expects that `` when various needed objects are not obtainable on the market he will design them .
He must be capable of designing for and supervising the manufacture of any craft materials needed in the furnishings '' .
This seems like a large order .
The interior designer , then , must first be an artist but also understand carpentry and painting and lighting and plumbing and finance .
Yet nobody will question the necessity of all this and any reputable interior designer does know all this and does practice it .
And further he must understand his obligation to the client to not only meet his physical necessities but also to enhance and improve his life and to enlarge the cultural horizon of our society .
Few will quarrel with the aim of the schools or with the wording of their curriculum .
It is in the quality of the teaching of all this that a question may arise .
The old established independent art schools try their best to fulfill their obligations .
Yet even here many a problem is presented ; ;
as in a recent design competition with a floor plan and the simple command -- `` design a luxury apartment '' ; ;
no description of the client or his cultural level , no assertion of geographical area or local social necessities -- simply `` a luxury apartment '' .
Working in a vacuum of minimal information can result only in show pieces that look good in exhibitions and catalogs and may please the public relations department but have little to do with the essence of interior design .
It is possible , of course , to work on extant or projected buildings where either architect or owner will explain their necessities so that the student may get `` the feel '' of real interior design demands .
Unfortunately , the purely synthetic problem is the rule .
It is like medical schools in India where , in that fairy-land of religious inhibition , the dissection of dead bodies is frowned upon .
Instead they learn their dissection on the bulbs of plants .
Thus technical efficiency is achieved at the expense of actual experience .
In the earlier years of training certain phases of the work must be covered and the synthetic problem has its use .
But to continue to divorce advanced students from reality is inexcusable .
Consultation with architects , clients , real estate men , fabric houses and furniture companies is essential to the proper development of class problems just as in actual work .
Fortunately , although only a few years ago they held the student at arms length , today the business houses welcome the opportunity to aid the student , not only from an increased sense of community responsibility but also from the realization that the student of today is the interior designer of tomorrow -- that the student already is `` in the trade '' .
Even the `` history of furniture '' can hardly be taught exclusively from photographs and lantern slides .
Here , too , the reality of actual furniture must be experienced .
The professional organizations such as American Institute of Interior Designers , National Society of Interior Designers , Home Fashions League and various trade associations , can and do aid greatly in this work .
Certainly every educator involved in interior design should be a member and active in the work of one of these organizations .
Not only should every educator above the rank of instructor be expected to be a member of one of the professional organizations , but his first qualification for membership as an educator should be so sharply scrutinized that membership would be equivalent to certification to teach the subject .
Participation for the educator in this case , however , would have to be raised to full and complete membership .
The largest of these organizations at present denies to the full time educator any vote on the conduct and standards of the group and , indeed , refuses him even the right to attach the customary initials after his name in the college catalog .
This anomalous status of the educator cannot fail to lower his standing in the eyes of the students .
The professor in turn dares not tolerate the influence in his classes of an organization in the policies and standards of which he has no voice .
This seems somewhat shortsighted since if the absolute educational qualifications for membership which the organizations profess are ever enforced , the educator will have the molding of the entire profession in his hands .
In one way the Institutes and Societies do a disservice to the schools .
That is in the continuance of the `` grandfather clauses '' in their membership requirements .
When these groups were first formed many prominent and accomplished decorators could not have had the advantage of school training since interior design courses were rare and undeveloped during their youth .
Long hard years of `` on the job '' training had brought them to their competence .
The necessity of that day has long disappeared .
There is plenty of opportunity for proper education today .
It is discouraging for students to realize that the societies do not truly uphold the standards for which they are supposed to stand .
The reason and the day of `` grandfather clauses '' has long since passed .
No one can deny that these `` back door '' admissions to membership provisions have been seriously abused nor that they have not resulted in the admission of downright incompetents to membership in supposedly learned societies .
Beyond any question of curriculum and approach to subject must be the quality of the teachers themselves .
It will occur to anyone that the teacher must have adequate education , a depth and breadth of knowledge far beyond the immediate necessities of his course plus complete dedication to his subject and to his students .
The local decorator who rushes in for a few hours of teaching may but more likely may not have these qualifications .
Nor will the hack , the Jack-of-all-trades , still found in some of the smaller art schools , suffice .
Only a few years ago a middle western college circulated a request for a teacher of interior design .
At the end of its letter was the information that applicants for this position `` must also be prepared to teach costume design and advertising art '' .
This kind of irresponsibility toward their students can scarcely build a strong professional attitude in the future designer .
We must build a corps of highly professional teachers of interior design who have had education , experience in the profession and are willing to take on the usual accompaniments of teaching -- minimal income and minimal status among their confreres .
Considerable specialization in teaching subjects such as architecture , furniture design , textiles and color is also desirable .
In all `` degree '' courses in interior design a number of `` academic '' or `` general studies '' courses are included .
It is only fair to demand that teachers of courses in English , history , psychology and so on be as well informed in matters of art , especially interior design , as are the art teachers educated in the academic subjects .
The proper correlation of the art with the academic can be achieved only if this standard is observed .
The matter of sympathy of the academic professors for art objectives also must be taken into account .
One technical question of school organization comes to mind here .
For proper accreditation of schools , teachers in any course must have a degree at least one level above that for which the student is a candidate .
Since there are almost no schools in the country offering graduate work in interior design this rule cannot at present be observed .
Indeed , it has only been a matter of the last few years that reputable schools of art have granted degrees at all .
The question , however , cannot be ignored for long .
The basic problem involved is that a college setting up a graduate school must have an entirely separate faculty for the advanced degree .
Most professors in the course must , naturally , again have a higher degree than the course offers .
One solution is the aquisition of degrees in education but it is a poor substitute .
It is a sort of academic ring-around-a-rosy and you solve it .
This brings us to the question of accreditation of art schools in general .
Only the independent art schools , that is , those not connected with any university or college , receive severe and separate investigation before accreditation by the various regional organizations .
It has been the custom for most universities to stretch the blanket of accreditation for their liberal arts school to cover the shivering body of their fine arts department .
This , plus the habit of many schools of simply adding interior design to the many subjects of their home economics department , yet , nevertheless , claiming that they teach interior design , has contributed to the low repute of many university courses in interior design .
In spite of this , many universities offer adequate and even distinguished courses in the subject .
There will be no mitigation of these offences until all art schools , whether independent or attached to universities have separate accreditation -- as do medical schools -- by an art accreditation group such as the `` National Association of Schools of Art '' .
Independent art schools granting degrees must , naturally , follow this with academic accreditation by the appropriate regional group .
General
How long has it been since you reviewed the objectives of your benefit and service program ? ?
Have you permitted it to become a giveaway program rather than one that has the goal of improved employee morale and , consequently , increased productivity ? ?
What effort do you make to assess results of your program ? ?
Do you measure its relation to reduced absenteeism , turnover , accidents , and grievances , and to improved quality and output ? ?
Have you set specific objectives for your employee publication ? ?
Is it reaching these goals ? ?
Is it larger or fancier than you really need ? ?
Are you using the most economical printing methods , paper , etc. .
Are there other , cheaper communications techniques that could be substituted ? ?
Has your attitude toward employee benefits encouraged an excess of free `` government '' work in your plant ? ?
Is your purchasing agent offering too much free-buying service for employees ? ?
When improvements are recommended in working conditions -- such as lighting , rest rooms , eating facilities , air-conditioning -- do you try to set a measure of their effectiveness on productivity ? ?
When negotiating with your union , do you make sure employees have a choice between new benefits and their cents-per-hour cost in wages .
Can you consider restricting any additional employee benefits to those paid for by profit-sharing money , such as was done in the union contract recently signed by American Motors Corporation ? ?
Insurance
Do your employees understand all the benefits to which your insurance entitles them ? ?
Are they encouraged to take full legal advantage of these benefits ? ?
Have you publicized the cents-per-hour value of the company's share of insurance premiums ? ?
When did you last compare your present premium costs with the costs of insurance from other sources ? ?
Can your insurance company aid you in reducing administrative costs ? ?
Do you try to maintain the principle of employee-contributed ( as opposed to fully company-paid ) programs ? ?
Holidays , time off , overtime
Do you protect your holiday privileges with an attendance requirement both before and after the holiday ? ?
Do you plan to limit additional holidays to area and/or industrial patterns ? ?
Have you investigated the possibility of moving midweek holidays forward to Monday or back to Friday in order to have an uninterrupted work week ? ?
Are you carefully policing wash-up time and rest periods to be certain that all other time is productive ? ?
Are you watching work schedules for boiler operators , guards , and other 24-hour-day , 7-day-week operations in order to minimize overtime ? ?
Are you careful to restrict the number of people on leave at one time so that your total employment obligation is minimized ? ?
Plant feeding facilities
Have you considered using vending equipment to replace or reduce the number of cafeteria employees ? ?
What are the possibilities for operating your cafeteria for a single shift only and relying upon vending machines or prepackaged sandwiches for the second- and third-shift operations ? ?
Have you checked the cost of subcontracting your cafeteria operation in order to save administrative costs ? ?
Are there possibilities of having cafeteria help work part-time on custodial or other jobs ? ?
Can staggered lunch periods relieve the capacity strain on your feeding facilities ? ?
Would it be feasible to limit the menu in order to reduce feeding costs ? ?
Have you considered gradual withdrawal of subsidies to your in-plant feeding operation ? ?
Are you utilizing cafeteria space for company meetings or discussions ? ?
Recreation facilities
Are your expenses in this area commensurate with the number of employees who benefit from your program ? ?
Have you audited your program recently to weed out those phases that draw least participation ? ?
Do employees contribute their share of money to recreational facilities ? ?
Have you considered delegating operational responsibility to your employee association and carefully restricting your plant's financial contribution ? ?
Could an employee's garden club take over partial care of plant grounds ? ?
Would a camera club be useful in taking pictures pertinent to plant safety ? ?
Are you spending too much money on team uniforms that benefit only a few employees ? ?
Are you underwriting expensive team trips ? ?
Are you utilizing vending machine proceeds to help pay for your program ? ?
Transportation and parking
Do you know the trend in your cost of maintaining access roads and parking lots ? ?
If you use parking attendants , can they be replaced by automatic parking gates ? ?
Will your local bus company erect and/or maintain the bus stops at your plant ? ?
If you provide inter-plant transportation , can this be replaced by available public transportation ? ?
If you use company transportation to meet trains or to haul visitors , would taxis be cheaper ? ?
How efficient and necessary are your intra-company vehicles ? ?
Can they be re-scheduled ? ?
Can part-time drivers be assigned to other productive work ? ?
Paid vacations
Which is more economical for your plant -- a vacation shutdown or spaced vacations that require extra employees for vacation fill-ins ? ?
Can vacations be spaced throughout the 12 months to minimize the number of employee fill-ins ? ?
Do you insist that unneeded salary employees take their vacations during plant shutdowns ? ?
What can your sales and purchasing departments do to curtail orders , shipments , and receipts during vacation shutdown periods ? ?
Retirement
Is an arbitrary retirement age of 65 actually costing your plant money ? ?
What sort of effort do you make to assure that older or disabled workers are fully productive ? ?
Would early retirement of non-productive , disabled employees reduce the number of make-work jobs ? ?
Will your union accept seniority concessions in assigning work for older or disabled employees ? ?
Medical and health
Can you share medical facilities and staff with neighboring plants ? ?
If you have a full-time doctor now , can he be replaced with a part-time doctor or one who serves on a fee-per-case basis only ? ?
Can your plant nurse be replaced by a trained first-aid man who works full-time on some other assignment ? ?
Do you rigidly distinguish between job- and non-job-connected health problems and avoid treating the latter ? ?
Are you indiscriminantly offering unnecessary medical services -- flu shots , sun lamp treatments , etc. ? ?
If you have an annual or regular physical examination program , is it worth what it is costing you ? ?
A program to fit your needs
Consider what you can afford to spend and what your goals are before setting up or revamping your employee benefit program .
Too many plant officials are all too eager to buy a package program from an insurance company simply because it works for another plant .
But even if that other plant employs the same number of workers and makes the same product , there are other facts to consider .
How old is your working force ? ?
What's your profit margin ? ?
In what section of the country are you located ? ?
Are you in a rural or urban area ? ?
These factors can make the difference between waste and efficiency in any benefit program .
Above all , don't set up extravagant fringe benefits just to buy employee good will .
Unions stress fringe benefits , but the individual hourly worker prefers cash every time .
Aim to balance your employee benefit package .
Some plants go overboard on one type of fringe -- say a liberal retirement plan -- and find themselves vulnerable elsewhere .
They're asking for union trouble .
Communications
If you want credit for your employee services program , let your workers know what they're entitled to .
Encourage them to exercise their benefits .
This can be done by stories in your house organs , posters , special publications , letters to workers' homes as well as by word of mouth through your chain of command .
Some companies find a little imagination helpful .
Hallmark Cards , Inc. , Kansas City , Mo. , has a do-it-yourself quiz game called `` Benefit Bafflers '' , which it distributes to employees .
M & R Dietetic Laboratories , Inc. , Columbus , gives all its workers a facsimile checkbook -- each check showing the amount the company spends on a particular fringe .
U. S. Rubber Company , New York , passes out a form itemizing the value of benefits .
The blue-collar worker thus knows his insurance package , for example , costs $227.72 .
Insurance
Have the insurance company or your own accounting department break down the cost of your insurance package periodically .
You may find certain coverage costing much more than is economically feasible , thereby alerting you to desirable revisions .
Check to see if some of your benefits -- such as on-the-job disability pay -- can be put on a direct payment rather than an insured basis at a savings to you .
Use deductable insurance wherever feasible .
It can put an end to marginal claims which play havoc with your insurance rates .
Also , beware of open-end policies , especially in the medical field .
This will mean that every time there's an increase in hospital rates your cost will go up in like manner .
Put a dollar-and-cents limit on benefits .
Don't go overboard on insurance that pays benefits only upon death .
Generally , your employee will greatly appreciate benefits that protect him during his working life or during retirement .
Special time off
In granting bereavement leaves , specify the maximum time off and list what the worker's relation to the deceased must be to qualify .
Thus , you avoid headaches when an employee wants off for his fourth cousin's funeral .
Also , reserve the right to demand proof of death despite the fact that you'll probably never use it .
Coffee breaks can be a real headache if not regulated .
Vending machines can alleviate the long hike to the cafeteria during the break with resulting waste of production time .
If coffee is sold at the cafeteria , let a few workers in each department get it for the whole group .
Consider installing supplemental serving lines in production areas .
Make sure milk for the coffee is placed in dispensers rather than in containers , if you are supplying the coffee .
Otherwise , you may be saddled with a good-size milk bill by milk drinkers .
Retirement policies
Keep the retirement age flexible so skilled craftsmen such as tool and die makers can be kept on the job for the convenience of the company .
And so deadheads on the payroll can be eased out at the earliest possible age .
Make sure you have minimum age and time-on-the-job requirements tied into your pension plan .
Younger men usually don't think of pensions as an important job benefit factor anyhow and they're liable to change jobs several times before settling down .
Choose carefully between contributory or non-contributory pension plans .
There are two sides of a coin for this decision .
Workers usually think more of a plan they contribute to .
And they can at least collect the money they put in , plus interest , when they leave the company .
A non-contributory plan usually won't pay off for the worker until he retires .
Thus , there is an added incentive to stay on the job .
Holidays
Make sure you don't pay for holidays that occur when an employee would not otherwise be working .
These include : leaves of absences , illnesses , and layoffs .
Consider adopting a system of holidays in which time off is granted with an eye to minimum inconvenience to the operation of the plant .
It's usually not too hard to sell workers on this as it gives them longer holiday periods .
For example , the Friday after Thanksgiving can be substituted for Washington's birthday .
This reduces the number of expensive plant shutdowns and startups .
Require each employee to work his last shift both before and after the holiday to be eligible for pay .
This cuts the absentee rate .
Eating facilities
Consider using vending machines rather than subsidized cafeterias .
Latest models serve hot meals at reasonable prices , and at a profit to you .
If a concessionaire runs the cafeteria , keep an eye out for quality and price .
If the soup tastes like dishwater , your employees won't blame the concessionaire .
You'll take the rap .
Check your cafeteria location to make sure it's convenient for most employees .
You may save valuable production minutes with a change .
Vacations
Spread your vacation period over the widest possible span of time or shut the plant down for two weeks .
This will cut the expense of vacation replacements .
And with the shutdown method there will be no argument as to who gets the choice vacation dates .
Also make sure you have reasonable requirements as to hours worked before a production employee is entitled to a vacation .
You might try providing standard vacation time off but make the vacation pay depend on the number of hours worked in the previous year .
The long and ever-increasing column of sportsmen is now moving into a new era .
Modern times have changed the world beyond recognition .
The early years of the twentieth century seem very far away .
But with all the changes in philosophy , dress and terrain -- a few things remain constant , including the devotion of Americans to the great field sports , hunting and fishing .
As the generations move on , clothes become more suitable for the enjoyment of outdoor sports .
Sporting firearms change , markedly for the better .
Just as modern transportation has outmoded the early Studebaker covered wagon , the demand of today's sportsmen and women has necessitated changes in their equipment .
The American firearms and ammunition manufacturers through diligent research and technical development have replaced the muzzle loader and slow-firing single-shot arms with modern fast firing auto-loaders , extremely accurate bolt , lever , and slide action firearms .
And millions of rounds of entirely new and modern small-arms ammunition , designed for today's hunting and target shooting .
And due to modern resource-use and game management practices , there is still game to shoot , even with the ever-expanding encroachment on land and water .
Present conservation practices regard wildlife , not as an expendable natural resource , but as an annual harvest to be sown and also reaped .
Unlimited game bags are possible and legal in more than 40 states , on shooting preserves ( one of the newer phases of modern game-management ) for five and six months each year .
Close to two million game birds were harvested on 1,500 commercial and private shooting preserves , and on State Game Commission-controlled upland game areas during the 1960-61 season .
The shooting development program of the Sporting Arms and Ammunition Manufacturers' Institute has successfully published these facts in all major outdoor magazines , many national weeklies and the trade papers .
The most effective way to develop more places for more sportsmen to shoot is to encourage properly managed shooting preserves .
This has been the aim of the director of the shooting development program , the New York staff of the Sportsmen's Service Bureau , and the SAAMI shooting preserve field consultants since the start of the program in 1954 .
Following the kick-off of SAAMI's shooting development program in 1954 , a most interesting meeting took place in Washington , D.C. .
The group known as the American Association for Health , , Physical Education , and Recreation ( a division of the National Education Association ) initiated a conference which brought together representatives of the National Rifle Association , SAAMI and the American Fishing Tackle Manufacturers .
This meeting was called to determine how these groups might cooperate to launch what is known as the Outdoor Education Project .
The Outdoor Education Project took cognizance of the fact , so often overlooked , that athletic activities stressed in most school programs have little or no relationship to the physical and mental needs and interests of later life .
The various team sports assuredly have their place in every school , and they are important to proper physical development .
But with the exception of professional athletes , few contact sports and physical education activities in our schools have any carryover in the adult life of the average American man or woman .
Following a vigorous campaign of interpretation and leadership development by OEP director Dr. Julian Smith , today thousands of secondary schools , colleges and universities have shooting and hunting education in their physical education and recreation programs .
SAAMI's financial support since 1955 has contributed to the success of this project in education .
Personnel assigned through the shooting development program have proudly participated in over 53 state and regional workshops , at which hundreds of school administrators , teachers , professors , and recreational leaders have been introduced to Outdoor Education .
Considering that the current school-age potential is 23 million youths , the project and its message on hunting and shooting education have many more to reach .
In 1959 SAAMI's shooting development program announced a new activity designed to expose thousands of teen-age boys and girls to the healthy fun enjoyed through the participation in the shooting sports .
This program is now nationally known as `` Teen Hunter Clubs '' .
Teen Hunter Clubs were initially sponsored by affiliated members of the Allied Merchandising Corporation .
The first program was sponsored by Abraham & Strauss , Hempstead , New York , under the direction of Special Events director Jennings Dennis .
Other pilot programs were conducted by A & S , Babylon , New York ; ;
J. L. Hudson , Detroit ; ;
Joseph Horne , Pittsburgh .
Other THC activities followed , conducted by shopping centers , department stores , recreation equipment dealers , radio-TV stations , newspapers , and other organizations interested in the need existing to acquaint youngsters with the proper use of sporting firearms and the development of correct attitudes and appreciations related to hunting and wise use of our natural resources .
SAAMI's field men have served as consultants and/or have participated in 75 Teen Hunter Club activities which have reached over 40,000 enthusiastic young Americans .
Through the efforts of SAAMI's shooting development program these shooting activities , and many others , including assists in the development of public and privately financed shooting parks , trap and skeet leagues , rifle and pistol marksmanship programs have been promoted , to mention only a few .
The continuation and expansion of the shooting development program will assure to some degree that national and community leaders will be made aware of the ever-growing need for shooting facilities and activities for hunting and shooting in answer to public demand .
While individual sportsmen are aware of this situation , too many of our political , social , educational and even religious leaders too often forget it .
Help is needed from dealers , at the grass-roots level .
The American gun and ammunition producers sponsor a successful promotional program through their industry trade association .
Since SAAMI's conception in 1926 , and more specifically since the adoption of the Shooting Development Program in 1954 , millions of dollars and promotional man-hours have gone into the development of more places to shoot for more youths and adults .
We trust that you , as a gun and ammunition dealer , have benefited through additional sales of equipment .
Are you getting top dollar from the shooting sports ? ?
Are you looking ahead to the exploding market of millions of American boys and girls , who will grow up to enjoy a traditional American way of life -- ranging the fields with a fine American gun and uniformly excellent ammunition ? ?
Is your sporting firearms and ammunition department primed for the expanding horizons ? ?
Would you like to organize Teen Hunters Clubs , shooting programs , and have information on seasons including six months of hunting with unlimited game bags on shooting preserves ? ?
Ask Sammy Shooter .
We were camping a few weeks ago on Cape Hatteras Campground in that land of pirates , seagulls and bluefish on North Carolina's famed Outer Banks .
This beach campground with no trees or hills presents a constant camping show with all manner of equipment in actual use .
With the whole camp exposed to view we could see the variety of canvas shelters in which Americans are camping now .
There were umbrella tents , wall tents , cottage tents , station wagon tents , pup tents , Pop tents , Baker tents , tents with exterior frames , camper trailers , travel trailers , and even a few surplus parachutes serving as sunshades over entire family camps .
Moving around camp we saw all kinds of camp stoves , lanterns , coolers , bedding , games , fishing tackle , windbreaks and sunshades .
We saw similar displays in the other three campgrounds in this 70-mile-long National Seashore Recreation Area .
Dealers would do well to visit such a campground often , look at the equipment and talk with the campers .
Here you begin to appreciate the scope of the challenges and possibilities facing the industry .
Camping is big and getting bigger .
No one knows where it will stop .
Almost every official who reflects on it thinks this movement of Americans to canvas dwellings opens one of the most promising of all outdoor markets .
You read various guesses on how many Americans are camping .
The number depends on who is talking at the moment .
The figures range as high as 15 million families .
I've heard 10 million mentioned often , but I'm more inclined to think there may be a total of some five to seven million families camping .
Seven million families would total 30 million Americans or more .
Consider the equipment needed to protect this many from the weather , to make their cooking easy and their sleeping comfortable .
More campers than campsites
Harassed state park officials often have more campers than they know what to do with .
They are struggling to meet the demand for camping space , but families are being turned away , especially on holiday weekends .
The National Parks , always popular camping places , are facing the same pressure .
The National Park Service hopes by 1966 to have 30,000 campsites available for 100,000 campers a day -- almost twice what there are at present .
The U.S. Forest Service cares for hundreds of thousands of campers in its 149 National Forests and is increasing its facilities steadily .
But the campers still come .
They bring their families and tents and camp kitchens and bedding .
They bring their fishing rods and binoculars and bathing suits .
They come prepared for family fun because Americans in ever-growing numbers are learning that here is the way to a fine economical vacation that becomes a family experience of lasting importance .
Why they keep coming
There are a half dozen reasons helping to account for the migration to the campgrounds .
Among them , according to the U.S. Department of Commerce , are : ( 1 ) shorter work weeks , ( 2 ) higher pay , ( 3 ) longer paid vacations , ( 4 ) better transportation , ( 5 ) earlier retirement , and ( 6 ) more education .
The more people learn about their country , the more they want to learn .
Camping is family fun , and it is helping more Americans see more of the country than they ever saw before .
But make no mistake about it , the first reason people turn to camping is one of economy .
Here is the promise of a vacation trip they can afford .
The American Automobile Association , computing the cost for two people to vacation by automobile , comes up with an average daily expenditure figure of $29 .
The AAA then splits it down this way : $10.50 for meals , $9.50 for lodging , $7 for gas and oil , and $2 for tips and miscellaneous .
What does the camping couple do to this set of figures ? ?
The $9.50 for lodging they save .
Because they prepare their own meals they also keep in their pockets a good portion of that $10.50 food bill along with most of the tip money .
The automobile expenses are about the only vacationing cost they can't either eliminate or pare down drastically by camping along the way .
Where Americans used to think of a single vacation each summer , they now think about how many vacations they can have .
Long weekends enable many to get away from home for three or four days several times a year .
And even if they stay in resorts part of the time , they might , if the right salesman gets them in tow , develop a yearning to spice the usual vacation fare with a camping trip into the wide open spaces .
It would be a mistake to sell those thousands of beginning campers on the idea they're buying the comforts of home .
They're not .
Home is the place to find the comforts of home .
They're buying fun and adventure and family experiences .
But it would also be a mistake for them not to realize how comfortable camping has become .
This is no longer a way of life for the bearded logger and the wandering cowboy .
Today's campers want comforts , and they have them .
And this helps explain why so many people are now going camping .
It's fun , and it's easy -- so easy that there is time left after cooking , and tent keeping , for the women to get out and enjoy outdoor fun with their families .
Camp meals are no great problem .
Neither are beds , thanks to air mattresses and sleeping bags .
Neither are shelters , because there is one to meet the needs of every camper or prospective camper .
But there is still the sometimes complex problem of helping campers choose the best equipment for their individual needs .
Throughout history , the man who showed superior performance has become the commander of others -- for good or bad .
Since the Industrial Revolution , when factories emerged , this classical pattern has been followed .
Until recently .
There have always been tales of disillusionment -- the competent technician who became an administrator , willingly or not , and found he didn't like it ; ;
the scientist who rebelled against the personnel and paper work ; ;
and much more commonly in recent years , the engineer who found that other duties interfered with -- or eliminated -- his engineering contributions .
There have been many extremely competent men who have been converted into very incompetent managers or submerged in paper work , to their own and the public's dissatisfaction and loss .
This has been more evident since our products have incorporated astronomically increased technology .
The remedies have been many and varied -- attempts to teach management techniques -- either in plant , at special schools , or in university `` crash '' courses -- provision of management-trained assistants or associates .
But the realization has been growing that these are not the complete answer .
Some men have no talent for or interest in management ; ;
forcing them into management can only create trouble .
The old shop adage still holds : `` A good mechanic is usually a bad boss '' .
Yet our economy clings inexorably to recognition of managerial status as the gage of success .
Labor fights to change its collar from blue to white .
All grades of management seek more resounding titles and incomes because of social pressures .
As several recent books have over-emphasized , we have become the most status-conscious nation in the world .
What can be done for the `` individual contributor '' who is extremely important -- and likely to be more so -- in the operation of the technically oriented company ? ?
He is usually conscious of the social pressures at home and outside ; ;
usually concerned about America's belief that attainment and success are measured in dollars and titles .
Yet titles are traditionally given only to management men , and income tends to rise with title .
Even the college professor in America has been affected .
It is , as one engineer says , `` indeed a difficult thing for the engineer to accept that he can go as far on his technical merit as he could employing managerial skills .
This difficulty arises even though we can give examples of men who have actually followed this course .
This leads one to conclude , as you have , that there is inevitably more prestige in a management position in the minds of our people '' .
Nobody should be more able to answer the questions on this score than engineering vice-presidents and chief engineers .
So we asked such men in major companies in the design field to offer their opinions on the `` dual-road-up '' problem -- and more importantly -- their solutions .
In the paragraphs that follow , we quote from 32 men who are identified on the final page .
First : what title , what setup ? ?
Among the more familiar plans for dual-channel advancement is that of General Electric .
This is not a mutually exclusive plan ; ;
there is no one point in a man's career at which he must select either the technical or the managerial path upward .
Further , the management path does not open the door to higher opportunities than are offered by the more technical path .
It is common to shift back and forth , working up through a number of supervisory and individual-contributor positions .
Actually , there are a number of individual-contributor positions in both operating departments and in the company-wide `` services '' operation that are filled by men with successful managerial experience who are currently broadening their capabilities .
Also , moving into a managerial position does not necessarily end a man's recognition as a technical expert .
As examples at GE : Glen B. Warren , formerly manager of the Turbine Division , widely recognized as a turbine designer .
The late W. R. G. Baker , a pioneer in television design and long-time vp & gm of the Electronics Division , and later , by his own choice , an individual consultant .
Harold E. Strang , expert in switchgear design , for a long period vp & gm of the Measurements & Industrial Products Division , and who currently , approaching retirement , is vice-president and consulting engineer in the Switchgear & Control Division .
In the GE plan , a number of individual contributors have positions and compensation higher than those of many managers .
These positions carry such titles as :
Consultant , Advanced Development
Consulting Engineer ,
Consulting Engineer , Heat Transfer
Consulting Electrical Engineer ,
Senior Electrical Engineer ,
Senior Physicist .
Westinghouse has a similar system , with two classifications representing various levels of competence on the strictly technical side : consulting engineer or scientist , as the case may be , and advisory engineer or scientist .
Many companies have systems , particularly in R & D , which work more or less well , depending upon size and actual belief in the policy on the part of administration , as will be abundantly apparent in subsequent quotations .
Another factor that may hold hope is for parallel recognition is , as one man says it : `` that the fad for educating top people along managerial lines is yielding to the technically trained approach '' .
Senior staff engineer ? ?
One company instituted , early in 1959 , a vertical classification system consisting of four levels .
There is no formal equivalence to the supervisory ranks ; ;
the top non-supervisory level , senior staff engineer , enjoys status and pay ranging up to that for the second level of engineering supervision .
The second level , senior engineer , rates slightly below first-level supervision .
The expectation is that first-level supervisors will be selected in approximately equal numbers from the second and third engineering level , with very few coming from the first level .
The company expects to extend upward both compensation and status for non-supervisory engineers , but probably not into executive levels .
In this organization , about half of the engineers with 15 or more years of employment are in supervision , engineering or elsewhere .
This reflects the very heavy engineering content of the products -- which are not military .
Several other examples : central and satellite
`` We have over 20 divisions -- each of which has an engineering department headed by a chief engineer .
We have set up a central R & D department , as well as engineering-management departments -- about 80 people working on problems related to those of our plants .
A separate research department is , of course , confined to new or future designs .
Part of this headquarters staff , however , are engineering managers who work between divisional chief engineers and headquarters management .
These headquarters engineers , headed by the vice-president -- Engineering , counsel and advise divisional managers and chief engineers on product problems as well as aid with design ; ;
and many are engineers who have been advanced from the divisions .
These men are considered managers of engineers .
They must learn to wear several hats , so to speak , working with management , sales and engineering problems related to the product .
`` We do not have people in our organization termed ' consultants ' or ' fellows ' , who are specialists in one particular technical subject .
I suppose it is because we are just not big enough .
We have a few ' consultants ' -- retired engineers retained and called in on certain problems .
The only ' fellows ' in our company are those who have been honored by ASME , AIEE or AIChE .
I am sure that the engineer who enters management is nearly always opening the door to greater possibilities than he would have as a technical specialist -- because of his wider accountability '' .
Another structure
`` We have tried to make both paths attractive , so that good men could find opportunity and satisfaction in either .
One way to formalize this is in the job structure .
We have these positions , which compare directly : Af
`` Above these jobs we have chief engineer for the company and vice-president of Engrg , R & Aj .
The latter jobs include major management responsibilities and have been filled by those who have come up primarily through the engineering-management side .
We have not yet succeeded in establishing recognition of technical specialization comparable to our higher levels of management , but I believe we will trend in this direction but not to exceed vice-president '' .
Top job : research scientist
`` .
Approximately four years ago , we initiated a dual ladder of advancement for technical persons .
The highest position is known as a ' research scientist .
This approach has not been entirely satisfactory .
The primary deterrent appears to lie with the technical people themselves , and their concept of what constitutes status in present-day society .
Scientists who agitate hardest for technical recognition are often the most reluctant to accept it .
We have discovered that the outward trappings such as private offices and private secretaries are extremely important ; ;
and although we have attempted to provide these status symbols , support of the ' dual-ladder ' plan has been half-hearted despite the creation of a salary potential for a research scientist commensurate with that of men in top managerial positions .
`` A serious problem accompanying the technical-ladder approach is the difficulty of clearly defining responsibilities and standards of performance for each level .
With no set standards , there is the tendency to promote to the next highest level when the top of a salary band is reached regardless of performance .
Promotion is too often based on longevity and time in salary grade instead of merit .
If no specific organization plan exists limiting the number of scientists at each salary level , the result is a department top-heavy with high-level , high-salaried personnel '' .
Staff engineer dept. manager
`` We have two approaches for the technical man : the position of staff engineer , which is rated as high in salary as department manager ; ;
and an administrative organization to take the routine load away from department managers and project engineers as much as possible , thus allowing them more time for strictly technical work .
These are only halfway measures , and the answer will come when some way is found to allow the technical man in industry to progress without limit in salary and prestige '' .
A complete plan
`` We have made limited application of the ' parallel ladder ' plan .
The highest rated non-supervisory engineering title is ' research engineer .
The salary schedule permits remuneration greater than the average paid to the first level of engineering supervision ( engineering section head ) .
We also have an ' engineering section head -- research engineer ' classification which has salary possibilities equivalent to that of a research engineer .
Above this point there is no generally used parallel ladder .
`` We also do a number of things to build up the prestige of the engineer as a ' professional ' and also to give public recognition to individual technical competence .
These include encouragement of , and assistance to , the engineer in preparation and publication of technical papers .
We have two media for publicizing individual technical activity , a magazine widely distributed both within and without the company , and an information bulletin for engineering personnel distributed to the homes of all engineers .
Publicity is given to the award of patents to our engineers and financial support is provided for individual membership in technical societies .
`` A recent , and more pertinent action , has been the establishment of a technical staff reporting to the vice-president for Engineering .
This function is staffed by engineers chosen for their technical competence and who have the title , member of the technical staff .
Salaries compare favorably with those paid to the first two or three levels of management .
Additional symbols of status are granted , such as reserved parking , distinctive badge passes authorizing special privileges , and a difference in the treatment of financial progress through merit .
`` We presently are involved in inaugurating a new development center .
Operations of this nature offer the best opportunity to recognize scientific status .
All scientific staff members will have the title , ' research-staff member .
The salary level of an individual within the group will reflect the scientific community's acceptance of him as an authority in his scientific field .
Contrary to usual organization-position evaluations , the position to which research-staff members report administratively will not necessarily encompass the duties of the research-staff member , therefore , are not necessarily evaluated as highly .
`` These recent steps do not offer the possibility of extension to the great number of senior engineers who have displayed technical competence .
It is doubtful that the complete solution to the over-all problem can result entirely from company efforts .
Fundamental to the difficulty of creating the desired prestige is the fact that , in the business community , prestige and status are conferred in proportion to the authority that one man has over others and the extent of which he participates in the management functions '' .
Sixty miles north of New York City where the wooded hills of Dutchess County meet the broad sweep of the Hudson River there is a new home development called `` Oakwood Heights '' .
As a matter of fact you could probably find a new home development in every populated county in the country with three-bedroom ranch style cottages in the $14,000 range .
But Oakwood Heights is unique in one particular .
Its oil for heating is metered monthly to each home from a line that starts at a central storage point .
This is a pilot operation sponsored by a new entity chartered in Delaware as the Tri-State Pipeline Corporation , with principal offices in New York State .
Its president is Otis M. Waters , partner in the law firm of Timen & Waters , 540-K Chrysler Bldg. , New York City .
Vice-president is Louis Berkman and the secretary-treasurer is Mark Ritter .
Ritter is the builder of Oakwood Heights and president of Kahler-Craft Distributors , Inc. , Newburgh , N.Y. .
The idea of a central tank with lines to each house is not in itself a novelty .
Not a year goes by but what several local companies in the U.S. and Canada , even overseas , write to Fueloil & Oil Heat to inquire if it's feasible and where it is being done .
Its editors only knew of one example to point to , a public housing development of 278 homes in New Haven described by John Schulz in the March , 1950 issue .
This has survived the years but there has been considerable concern among the tenants over the fact that the oil was not metered .
Rather the monthly total consumption was divided and charged on the basis of number of rooms and persons in the family .
Common complaints included `` Mrs. Murphy '' leaving her windows open all the time , a fresh air fan , or the family was visiting `` Aunt Minnie '' with the house shut up but they still paid the same rate for oil .
As a result of that attitude , others have been discouraged from trying central distribution .
A new low capacity meter is the key that unlocks the situation at Oakwood Heights .
Called a `` Slo-Flo '' meter it was designed for this job by Power Plus Industries of Los Angeles , a key individual being Don Nelson .
Tri-State has acquired its exclusive distribution for the northern , principal heating states .
There's an advantage in having a firm like Tri-State headed by a lawyer .
The earlier New Haven development was public housing , so it easily leaped over the problems met in a private venture .
These have to do with property rights , municipal official attitudes and a host of others .
In working out the practical legal conclusions President Waters was not thinking only of this pilot project , for it is planned to duplicate this program or system in other builder developments nationally .
It is always difficult , or at least time-consuming , to get approval of any kind of line under a public street , as one example .
To overcome this , the builder lays and completes the street himself , then deeds it to the community while retaining a perpetual easement for the oil lines .
When a family buys a home the title is subject to a perpetual easement to Tri-State .
For the central storage , Tri-State buys one acre , Buries its tanks and simply holds permanent title to that piece .
In other words , the whole storage and pipeline system does not belong to the homeowners nor to the town but rather to Tri-State .
How does Tri-State get its revenue from this plan ? ?
It leases the whole facility to a large oil company , at least large enough to have a strong credit position .
This first test is being leased for ten years but future projects will require at least 15 years .
The amount paid by the oil company to Tri-State for the use of its oil distribution system and the privilege of supplying all the homes , is subject to negotiation but naturally must be profitable to both parties .
On this first venture the central storage is 20,000 gallons , in two tanks , or an average of 400 gallons for each of the 50 homes .
The supplier delivers at his convenience in transport loads , so as to maintain two-to-three weeks reserve supply against weather contingencies .
However , that is not all he has to do .
He must undertake complete servicing of the oilheating equipment to assure fine heating .
In the present project the heating is by circulating hot water from Paragon boiler-burner units with summer-winter domestic hot water hookups .
Again , the oil man must read the meters at such intervals as he finds best .
For this first development the supplier signing the lease is a major oil company but in turn the deal is being transferred for operation to its local fueloil distributor .
The major gets the assured gallonage for the life of the lease and the distributor apparently can do well because delivery cost is low .
Initial considerations
The officers of the new corporation have naturally explored many angles , as well as personalities that might be affected .
For example , the officials of Poughkeepsie town ( township ) where the project is located think highly of it because it simplifies their snow clearing problem .
The central storage is near a main artery quite easy to reach with large transports on a short crescent swing , with fewer trucks in the residential streets .
The Public Service Commission has ruled that this is not a public utility , subject to their many regulations .
Several financial institutions , both banks and insurance companies , have been sounded out .
They like it and would supply most of the capital because of the long term leases by strong oil companies .
The Government housing agencies consider it feasible with one special stipulation .
There must be a restriction in the deed to provide that the customer may not be charged more than the current market price for the oil , an obvious precaution , since the account is permanently wedded , just like with gas or electricity .
For a few details of the system the lines are 1-1/4'' '' X-Tru-Coat , a product of Republic Steel Corp. , and all lines are welded .
They are laid a minimum of 24'' '' deep and in some areas four feet down , particularly under roads , to stay clear of all other piping such as water and sewers and to minimize shocks from heavy trucking .
The meter is mounted high on the basement wall .
Its figures are a half inch high and very easy to read , even into tenth gallons .
It will accommodate firing rates as low as a half gallon an hour .
Ritter , the builder , is convinced that the total cost of all the heating systems plus the oil distribution system is no greater than would be gas heating systems in the houses plus their lines and meters .
He believes that this is a sound approach to gas competition in builder developments where gas is available .
It would be pretty difficult to install a Tri-State system in old neighborhoods , and that's an understatement .
The job of getting property easements and street easements and the acre for the tanks would become pretty discouraging .
But in a new development where everything starts from scratch the solutions are simple .
Future plans
What does Tri-State actually want to do , now that it has the meters under franchise and certain phases of its piping system in the `` patent applied for '' stage ? ?
It wants to interest builders and oil companies in the idea of including its facility in their new home projects , by financing and installing the storage , piping and meters , and leasing these for 15 years , with renewal options , to a strong oil company .
It may also work in one other way -- by licensing its system patents and supplying the meters , letting the oil company or even the builder install the facilities .
This whole development is certain to be of interest to the readers , for the idea has so often been mentioned , somewhat wistfully .
But it's too early yet to go visit Oakwood Heights .
Only eight of the 50 houses were completed at the time of the editor's visit on June 8th ; ;
others were building .
The big tanks were at the site but still sunning themselves .
A big mechanical ditcher was running the trenches , and the town building inspector was paying a friendly , if curious , visit .
The oilheating industry is looking up , led by a revival of research and development .
A primary ingredient in these fields is imagination , and Tri-State Pipeline Corporation deserves a very good mark .
Every year about this time National Gargle Your Cooling System week rolls around .
It pays in the long ( hot ) run to take good care of the water works .
Do it this way for the summer gargle :
First , drain that old coolant down the storm sewer .
Don't save the anti-freeze , even if it the expensive `` permanent '' type .
The word means it won't boil away easily , nothing else .
The rust inhibitors in the fluid are used up after one year , and you don't want to risk the rust that two years' use could mean .
Pitch it out .
If a lot of rust shows in the drain , use a good flushing cleaner .
Then fill the system and add a rust inhibitor .
Of course , you'll want to use the softest water you can in your radiators .
Now , check for leaks in your hoses and hose connections , around the freeze-out plugs , gaskets , water pump seals and heater fittings .
Next , run the engine and let it heat up so the thermostat opens , and then look for leaks again .
Be sure the bugs and dirt are blown out of the radiator fins .
Use the air hose for this job .
Check the temperature gage and be sure it is working .
If you use one of the new year-round cooling system fluids such as `` Dowguard '' be sure to check it .
Dow says that the fluid can be used now for two years .
Check its inhibitor effectiveness before leaving it in during the summer .
Take precautions now , to be sure you avoid those unpleasant and costly heat breakdowns when the temperature zooms this summer .
Don't let your mechanics pull the thermostats out of those fueloil delivery trucks or installation rigs of yours .
Spring and summer may be here officially , but those thermos stay in .
The fact is that removing and leaving out a thermostat from any water cooled vehicle , will greatly increase the fuel consumption , reduce power and contribute to spark plug fouling due to an accumulation of excessive carbon deposits on the insulators .
If you run into excess plug fouling on one truck , check to be sure that the rig has a thermostat .
The thermostat is important to get your engine up to operating temperature quickly , and to keep it running at its most efficient temperature through the proper circulation of the coolant .
Are you paying too much for your truck insurance ? ?
There's a good chance you are doubling on some coverage , not taking discounts coming to you and not cutting some corners that can be cut .
Have a talk with your insurance agent .
Be careful that you keep adequate coverage , but look for places to save money .
First go over the type of coverage you now have .
Look for these features which may mean you can save :
Duplicate coverage .
Avoid doubling up on the same item .
For example , don't pay in a truck policy for medical coverage that you may be paying for in a health and accident policy .
Does your policy have a lay-up clause ? ?
This means that if your insured vehicle is laid up for more than 30 days , insurance can be suspended and a proportionate return of your premium made to you .
This applies to repair work of winter storage .
The figure five is important in insurance .
With many company policies you get a fleet discount if you insure five or more rigs .
This means either cars or trucks .
Discounts run up to 2% of cost .
Usually premium reductions can be obtained by applying deductibles to your liability plan .
For example : If your bodily injury claims start payment after the first $250 , a 25% premium saving is often made .
In the period since the end of World War 2 , -- a period coinciding with merchandising demands for the colorful , the unusual , and the original in signs and displays -- plastics have come on so strong that today they are the acknowledged leaders in the field .
The importance of the sign industry to the plastics industry , however , is not in terms of volume alone .
Designers of signs and displays have shown a refreshing approach to the adaptation of plastics that has influenced the workings of other industries .
Many of today's developments in thermoforming stem from original work done with signs and displays ; ;
the art of preprinting in distortion was similarly perfected by the sign makers ; ;
and the reverse-surface decorating techniques now used for escutcheons , medallions , etc. , owes much to the field , as does the technology of designing with the light-transmitting properties of the transparent plastics .
There is much that many industries can continue to learn from some of the more recent developments described below .
The concept of trans-illumination ( as shown by the photo on p. 92 ) , as just one example , offers an entirely new approach to lighting problems -- no matter what industry is involved .
A volume market
According to a recent Wall Street Journal survey , plastics units now account for more than 50% of all sign sales .
Five years ago , they had only 10% of the market , with the remainder firmly entrenched in the stronghold of neon tubing .
And it's far from the end for plastics .
Industry sources are now estimating that 75% of the signs made during the 1960's will be of plastic construction .
Evidence of this trend can best be seen in the recent activities of such leading companies in the field as Advance Neon Sign Co. , Los Angeles , Calif. .
Four years ago , the company's entire line was devoted to neon signs ; ;
today , 85% is in plastics .
