3 .
Does it put the label of un-American or subversive on everyone with whom it disagrees politically ? ?
4 .
Does it attempt to rewrite modern history by blaming American statesmen for wars , Communism , depression , and other troubles of the world ? ?
5 .
Does it employ crude pressure tactics with such means as anonymous telephone calls and letter writing campaigns ? ?
6 .
Do its spokesmen seem more interested in the amount of money they collect than in the principles they purport to advocate ? ?
In some instances a seventh question can be added : 7 .
Does the organization show an affinity for a foreign government , political party or personality in opposition or preference to the American system ? ?
If the would-be joiner asks these questions he is not likely to be duped by extremists who are seeking to capitalize on the confusions and the patriotic apprehensions of Americans in a troubled time .
Falling somewhere in a category between Einstein's theory and sand fleas -- difficult to see but undeniably there , nevertheless -- is the tropical green `` city '' of Islandia , a string of offshore islands that has almost no residents , limited access and an unlimited future .
The latter is what concerns us all .
Whatever land you can see here , from the North tip end of Elliott Key looking southward , belongs to someone -- people who have title to the land .
And what you can't see , the land underneath the water , belongs to someone , too .
The public .
The only real problem is to devise a plan whereby the owners of the above-water land can develop their property without the public losing its underwater land and the right to its development for public use and enjoyment .
In the fairly brief but hectic history of Florida , the developers of waterfront land have too often wound up with both their land and ours .
In this instance , happily , insistence is being made that our share is protected .
And until this protection is at least as concrete as , say , the row of hotels that bars us from our own sands at Miami Beach , those who represent us all should agree to nothing .
Closed doors in city hall
The reaction of certain City Council members to California's newest anti-secrecy laws was as dismaying as it was disappointing .
We had assumed that at least this local legislative body had nothing to hide , and , therefore , had no objections to making the deliberations of its committees and the city commissions available to the public .
In the preamble to the open-meeting statutes , collectively known as the Brown Act , the Legislature declares that `` the public commissions , boards and councils and other public agencies in this state exist to aid in the conduct of the people's business .
It is the intent of the law that their actions be taken openly and that their deliberations be conducted openly .
`` The people of this state do not yield their sovereignty to the agencies that serve them .
The people , in delegating authority , do not give their public servants the right to decide what is good for the people to know and what is not good for them to know .
The full implementation of these noble words , however , has taken the efforts of five sessions of the Legislature .
Since 1953 California has led the nation in enacting guarantees that public business shall be publicly conducted , but not until this year did the lawmakers in Sacramento plug the remaining loopholes in the Brown Act .
Despite the lip service paid by local governments , the anti-secrecy statutes have been continuously subverted by reservations and rationalizations .
When all else fails , it is argued that open sessions slow down governmental operations .
We submit that this is a most desirable effect of the law -- and one of its principal aims .
Without public scrutiny the deliberations of public agencies would no doubt be conducted more speedily .
But the citizens would , of course , never be sure that the decisions that resulted were as correct as they were expeditious .
Help when needed
If the Dominican Republic achieves free , democratic government , it will be due in large part to the U.S. show of force that enabled President Balaguer to prevent a threatened restoration of Trujillo dictatorship .
Outwardly , Ciudad Trujillo is calm .
None of the Trujillo family remains .
Mr. Balaguer is in control , and opposition leaders have no further excuse to suspect his offer of a coalition government preliminary to free elections in the spring .
Had U.S. warships not appeared off the Dominican coast , there is every possibility that the country would now be wracked by civil war .
Ultimately either the Trujillos would have been returned to power or the conflict would have produced conditions favorable to a takeover by Dominican elements responsive to Castro in Cuba .
Within the Organization of American States , there may be some criticism of this unilateral American intervention which was not without risk obviously .
But there was no complaint from the Dominican crowds which lined Ciudad Trujillo's waterfront shouting , `` Vive Yankees '' ! !
More , the U.S. action was hailed by a principal opposition leader , Dr. Juan Bosch , as having saved `` many lives and many troubles in the near future '' .
Mr. Balaguer's troubles are by no means over .
He will need the help of all OAS members to eradicate , finally , the forces of authoritarianism , pro-Trujillo and pro-Castro alike .
In cooperating toward that objective , OAS might move with the speed and effectiveness demonstrated by the United States .
Matter of survival
those watching the growing rivalry between craft unions and industrial unions may recognize all the pressures that led to the big labor split in 1935 .
Now , as then , it is a matter of jobs .
Craft unions seek work that industrial unions claim , such as factory maintenance .
The issue was sufficiently potent in 1935 to spark secession from the American Federation of Labor of its industrial union members .
That breach was healed 20 years later by merger of the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations .
Or that's what it looked like at the time .
But automation and the increasing complexity of factories has renewed the competition for jobs .
Walter Reuther , leader of the industrial union faction of the AFL-CIO , says another two years of this squabbling will be disastrous for all American labor .
Whether it could be as disastrous for American labor as , say , Jimmy Hoffa of the Teamsters , is a matter of conjecture .
But the jurisdictional disputes that result from the craft-industrial rivalry do not win friends for labor .
Engaged as it is in a battle for world trade as a condition of national survival , this country can have little patience with labor's family feuds .
The concept of labor as a special class is outmoded , and in the task confronting America as bastion of the free world , labor must learn to put the national interest first if it is itself to survive .
Deterrent
the Army , Navy and Air Force , among others , may question Secretary Freeman's claim that the high estate of United States agriculture is the `` strongest deterrent '' to the spread of communism .
But the secretary insists that the success of the American farmer is the `` greatest single source of strength '' in the struggle to insure freedom around the world .
Mr. Freeman said that in many of the countries he visited on a recent world trade trip people were more awed by America's capacity to produce food surpluses than by our industrial production -- or even by the Soviet's successes in space .
This shouldn't surprise the secretary ; ;
American taxpayers have been impressed by the surpluses for a long , long time .
In fact , over the years , the American farmer's capacity to over-produce has cost the taxpayers a large dollar .
And thus far , Mr. Freeman has offered very little relief .
The 1961 feed grain program , which the secretary sponsored , has been declared a billion dollar fiasco .
In exchange for higher price supports , growers pledged reduction in planted acreage .
But the farmers outsmarted Washington by shortening the distance between the rows and pouring on the fertilizer .
The result : $1.1 billion added to the deficit in the federal budget .
Perhaps , as Mr. Freeman says , American agriculture may stop the Communists , but it is also swindling the American taxpayer .
What's wrong at state
A senate subcommittee headed by Sen. Jackson of Washington has been going over the State Department and has reached some predictable conclusions .
The department needs a clearer `` sense of direction '' at the top and it needs fewer , but better , people , Sen. Jackson says .
The subcommittee is not alone in questioning the effectiveness of the department .
President Kennedy has indicated his dissatisfaction with its performance .
But those who would revitalize so complex an organization must , first of all , overcome the resistance of layers of officials wedded to traditional procedures , suspicious of innovation and fearful of mistakes .
Nor does Sen. Jackson discuss the delicate situation created by the presence in the White House of a corps of presidential assistants engaged in the study of foreign policy .
This tends to create friction and confusion and has not made it easier for Secretary Rusk to restore vigor and initiative among his subordinates .
But competent observers believe he is making progress , particularly toward what Sen. Jackson lists as the primary need -- `` a clearer understanding of where our vital national interests lie and what we must do to promote them '' .
The Jackson report will provide some of the political support Mr. Rusk will need if he is to get rid of department personnel engaged , as Sen. Jackson puts it , `` in work that does not really need doing '' .
Mr. Rusk should also draw comfort from Sen. Jackson's recommendation that congressional methods of dealing with national security problems be improved .
Self-criticism is a rare but needed commodity in Congress .
Betting men
forecasting economic activity is a hazardous undertaking even for the specialist .
But now apparently the job of Secretary of Labor requires that he be willing to risk his reputation as a prognosticator of unemployment trends .
James P. Mitchell , when he was the head of the department , promised to eat his hat if unemployment didn't drop below three million a couple of years ago .
He lost , but settled for a cake in the shape of a fedora .
His successor , Secretary Goldberg , also has been guessing wrong on a drop in the unemployment rate which has been holding just under 7 per cent for the last 11 months .
No betting man , Mr. Goldberg says he's merely `` putting my neck out again '' by predicting the rate will go down this month .
He is basing his guess on new government statistics that show business has broadened its stride -- a new record high in personal income , an increase in housing starts , a spurt in retail sales and a gain in orders for durable goods .
Mr. Mitchell had an excuse for losing -- the steel strike lasted much longer than he anticipated .
Mr. Goldberg has less reason for missing .
The economy seems to be sailing along on an even keel and the 1961 hurricane season and auto strikes are at an end so they can't be blamed in November .
The odds thus appear favorable that the secretary's neck may be spared .
Little resistance
Cambodia's chief of state , who has been accused of harboring Communist marauders and otherwise making life miserable for neighboring South Viet Nam and Thailand , insists he would be very unhappy if communism established its power in Southeast Asia .
But so convinced of communism's inevitable triumph is Prince Sihanouk that he is ready to throw in the towel .
`` I have to see the facts '' , is the way the prince puts it .
And from that point of vantage he concedes another two years of grace to nations maintaining a pro-Western posture .
Prince Sihanouk's powers of prognostication some day may be confirmed but history is not likely to praise the courage of his convictions .
Bottom sighted
Commerce Secretary Hodges seems to have been cast in the role of pacemaker for official Washington's economic forecasters .
Weeks ago he saw a business upturn in the second quarter of this year while his colleagues in the Cabinet were shaking their heads in disagreement .
Recently Treasury Secretary Dillon and Labor Secretary Goldberg fell into line with Mr. Hodges' appraisal , though there has been some reluctance to do so at the White House .
And now Mr. Hodges has pioneered further into the economic unknown with the announcement that he thinks business has stopped sliding and that it should start going upward from this point .
He is the first top administration officer to see the bottom of the slump .
The secretary based his assessment on the upturn in retail sales .
February's volume was 1 per cent above January's for the first pickup since last October , although it's still 1.5 per cent off from February 1960 .
Corroborating Mr. Hodges' figures was the Federal Reserve Board's report of the large sales increase in the nation's department stores for the week ending March 4 .
In Newark , for example , this gain was put at 26 per cent above the year-earlier level .
Of course , some of the credit for the sale boost must be given to improvement in the weather and to the fact that Easter comes more than two weeks earlier than in 1960 .
Another optimistic sign , this one from the Labor Department , was the report that the long rise in unemployment compensation payments `` was interrupted for the first time in the week ending Feb. 25 '' .
Initial claims for jobless benefits were said to have dropped by 8,100 in the week ending March 4 .
Mr. Hodges is so hopeful over the outlook that he doesn't think there will be any need of a cut in income taxes .
Well , we can't have everything .
Prosperity for the whole nation is certainly preferred to a tax cut .
In New Jersey , too
New Jersey folk need not be told of the builder's march to the sea , for in a single generation he has parceled and populated miles of our shoreline and presses on to develop the few open spaces that remain .
Now the Stone Harbor bird sanctuary , 31 acres of magic attraction for exotic herons , is threatened , but the battlefront extends far beyond our state .
Against the dramatic fight being waged for preservation of 30 miles of Cape Cod shoreline , the tiny tract at Stone Harbor may seem unimportant .
But Interior Secretary Udall warns that there is a race on between those who would develop our few surviving open shorelines and those who would save them for the enjoyment of all as public preserves .
The move for establishment of a national seashore park on 30,000 acres of Cape Cod , from Provincetown to Chatham , is strengthened by President Kennedy's interest in that area .
But preservation of the natural beauty of the Cape is of more than regional concern , for the automobile age has made it the recreation spot of people from all over the country .
By comparison , Stone Harbor bird sanctuary's allies seem less formidable , for aside from the Audubon Society , they are mostly the snowy , common and cattle egrets and the Louisiana , green , little blue and black-crowned herons who nest and feed there .
But there is hope , for Conservation Commissioner Bontempo has tagged the sanctuary as the kind of place the state hopes to include in its program to double its park space .
The desirability of preserving such places as the Cape dunes and Stone Harbor sanctuary becomes more apparent every year .
Public sentiment for conserving our rich natural heritage is growing .
But that heritage is shrinking even faster .
No joyride
much of the glamor President Kennedy's Peace Corps may have held for some prospective applicants has been removed by Sargent Shriver , the head corpsman .
Anybody who is expecting a joyride should , according to Mr. Shriver , get off the train right now .
First of all , the recruits will have to undergo arduous schooling .
It will be a 16-hour training day .
Then off to a remote place in an underdeveloped country where the diet , culture , language and living conditions will be different .
And the pay , of course , will be nil .
Despite all this , the idea apparently has captured the imagination of countless youths whose parents are probably more surprised by the response than anybody else .
The study of the St. Louis area's economic prospects prepared for the Construction Industry Joint Conference confirms and reinforces both the findings of the Metropolitan St. Louis Survey of 1957 and the easily observed picture of the Missouri-Illinois countryside .
St. Louis sits in the center of a relatively slow-growing and in some places stagnant mid-continent region .
Slackened regional demand for St. Louis goods and services reflects the region's relative lack of purchasing power .
Not all St. Louis industries , of course , have a market area confined to the immediate neighborhood .
But for those which do , the slow growth of the area has a retarding effect on the metropolitan core .
The city has a stake in stimulating growth and purchasing power throughout outstate Missouri and Southern Illinois .
Gov. Dalton's New Commerce and Industry Commission is moving to create a nine-state regional group in a collective effort to attract new industry .
That is one approach .
Another would be to take the advice of Dr. Elmer Ellis , president of the University of Missouri , and provide for an impartial professional analysis of Missouri's economy .
He says the state , in order to proceed with economic development , must develop an understanding of how the various parts of its economy fit together and dovetail into the national economy .
The research center of the University's School of Business and Public Administration is prepared to undertake the analysis Dr. Ellis has been talking about .
He and Dean John W. Schwada of the Business School outlined the project at a recent conference .
The University can make a valuable contribution to the state's economic development through such a study .
In Southern Illinois , the new federal program of help to economically depressed areas ought to provide some stimulus to growth .
The Carbondale Industrial Development Corp. has obtained a $500,000 loan to help defray the cost of remodeling a city-owned factory to accommodate production that will provide 500 new jobs .
Carbondale is in the Herrin-Murphysboro-West Frankfort labor market , where unemployment has been substantially higher than the national average .
The Federal program eventually should have a favorable impact on Missouri's depressed areas , and in the long run that will benefit St. Louis as well .
Politics-ridden St. Clair county in Illinois presents another piece of the problem of metropolitan development .
More industrial acreage lies vacant in St. Clair county than in any other jurisdiction in the St. Louis area .
The unstable political situation there represents one reason new plants shy away from the East Side .
And then there is St. Louis county , where the Democratic leadership has shown little appreciation of the need for sound zoning , of the important relationship between proper land use and economic growth .
St. Louis county under its present leadership also has largely closed its eyes to the need for governmental reform , and permitted parochial interests to take priority over area-wide interests .
Some plant-location specialists take these signs to mean St. Louis county doesn't want industry , and so they avoid the area , and more jobs are lost .
Metropolitan St. Louis's relatively slow rate of growth ought to be a priority concern of the political , business , civic and other leaders on both sides of the Mississippi .
Without a great acceleration in the metropolitan area's economy , there will not be sufficient jobs for the growing numbers of youngsters , and St. Louis will slip into second-class status .
An excess of zeal
Many of our very best friends are reformers .
Still we must confess that sometimes some of them go too far .
Take , for example , the reformers among New York City's Democrats .
Having whipped Mr. De Sapio in the primaries and thus come into control of Tammany Hall , they have changed the name to Chatham Hall .
Even though headquarters actually have been moved into the Chatham building , do they believe that they can make the new name stick ? ?
Granted that the Tammany name and the Tammany tiger often were regarded as badges of political shame , the sachems of the Hall also have a few good marks to their credit .
But it is tradition rather than the record which balks at the expunging of the Tammany name .
After all , it goes back to the days in which sedition was not un-American , the days in which the Sons of St. Tammany conspired to overthrow the government by force and violence -- the British government , that is .
Further , do our reforming friends really believe that the cartoonists will consent to the banishment of the tiger from their zoo ? ?
They will -- when they give up the donkey and the elephant .
Instead of attempting the impossible , why not a publicity campaign to prove that all the tiger's stripes are not black ? ?
That might go over .
The Faget case
The White House itself has taken steps to remove a former Batista official , Col. Mariano Faget , from his preposterous position as interrogator of Cuban refugees for the Immigration Service .
The Faget appointment was preposterous on several grounds .
The Kennedy Administration had assured anti-Castro Cubans that it would have nothing to do with associates of Dictator Batista .
Using a Batista man to screen refugees represented a total misunderstanding of the democratic forces which alone can effectively oppose Castro .
Moreover , Col. Faget's information on Cuba was too outdated to be useful in `` screening '' Castro agents ; ;
the Colonel fled to the friendly haven of the Dominican dictatorship as soon as Castro seized power .
And while he had headed Batista's anti-Communist section , the Batista regime did not disturb the Communists so much as more open opponents who were alleged to be Communists .
Responsibility for the Faget appointment rests with Gen. J. M. Swing , an Eisenhower appointee as head of the Immigration Service .
Gen. Swing has received public attention before this for abuse of some of the prerogatives of his office .
His official term expired last summer .
Some reports say he was rescued from timely retirement by his friend , Congressman Walter of Pennsylvania , at a moment when the Kennedy Administration was diligently searching for all the House votes it could get .
Congressman Walter has been all-powerful in immigration matters , but he has announced plans to retire in 1962 .
At that point the Administration will have little reason to hang onto Gen. Swing .
The Faget case was the kind of salvage job the Administration should not have to repeat .
Mr. Eisenhower , politician
As President , Dwight D. Eisenhower often assumed a role aloof from the strife of partisan politics .
As a former President , however , Mr. Eisenhower abandoned this role to engage in partisan sniping during a New York Republican rally , and generally missed his target .
Mr. Eisenhower seized upon the incident of the postcard lost by a Peace Corps girl in Nigeria to attack the entire Corps as a `` juvenile experiment '' and to suggest sending a Corps member to the moon .
This was juvenile ridicule .
Nowhere did the speaker recognize the serious purpose of the Corps or its welcome reception abroad .
His words were the more ungracious to come from a man who lent his name to the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships dedicated to the same goal of international understanding .
The former President blithely ignored recent history in speaking of `` dollarette '' dollars under Kennedy Administration fiscal policies .
It was the Eisenhower Administration which produced the largest peacetime deficit .
Finally , Mr. Eisenhower found nothing but confusion in Washington .
This statement recalls the 1959 Berlin crisis , when President Eisenhower first told reporters that Berlin could not be defended with conventional weapons and then added that a nuclear defense was out of the picture too .
The crisis has been renewed since then but the confusion has hardly been compounded .
Ex-Presidents , relieved of accountability for policy , sometimes seem to feel free of accountability for their words .
Some of former President Truman's off-the-cuff discourses have been in that vein .
Nobody can deny the right of former Chief Executives to take part in politics , but the American people expect them always to remember the obligations of national leadership and to treat issues with a sense of responsibility .
This is a matter of respect for the Presidency .
Mr. Eisenhower's New York speech does not encourage respect for that or for his elder statesmanship .
Queen of the seas
The Queen Mary has long been a symbol of speed , luxury , and impeccable British service on the high seas .
Reports that the venerable liner , which has been in service since 1936 , was to be retired struck a nostalgic note in many of us .
But the Cunard line , influenced by unpleasant economic facts and not sentiment , has decided to keep the Queen Mary in service until next Spring at least .
A new queen , with the prosaic title of Q3 , had been planned for several years to replace the Queen Mary .
The British government , concerned about the threat of unemployment in the shipbuilding industry , had put through a bill to give Cunard loans and grants totaling $50,400,000 toward the $84,000,000 cost of a new 75,000-ton passenger liner .
Since 1957 , more and more trans-Atlantic passengers have been crossing by air .
Economy class fares and charter flights have attracted almost all new passengers to the airlines .
Competition from other steamship lines has cut Cunard's share of sea passengers from one-third to one-fourth and this year the line showed a marked drop of profits on the Atlantic run .
The Cunard line has under consideration replacing the Queen Mary with a ship smaller than 75,000 tons .
This would be cheaper to operate and could be used for cruises during the lean winter months .
Also under consideration is an increased investment in Cunard Eagle Airways which has applied to serve New York .
The decline of the Cunard line from its position of dominance in Atlantic travel is a significant development in the history of transportation .
Mission to Viet Nam
Gen. Maxwell Taylor's statement in Saigon that he is `` very much encouraged '' about the chances of the pro-Western government of Viet Nam turning back Communist guerrilla attacks comes close to an announcement that he will not recommend dispatching United States troops to bolster the Vietnamese Army .
Gen. Taylor will report to President Kennedy in a few days on the results of his visit to South Viet Nam and , judging from some of his remarks to reporters in the Far East , he is likely to urge a more efficient mobilization of Vietnamese military , economic , political and other resources .
There was good reason for Gen. Taylor to make an inspection trip at this time .
Communist guerrillas recently have been reported increasing their activities and the great flood of the Mekong River has interposed a new crisis .
South Viet Nam's rice surplus for next year -- more than 300,000 tons -- may have been destroyed .
The Viet Cong , the Communist rebels , may have lost their stored grain and arms factories .
The rebels may try to seize what is left of the October harvest when the floods recede and the monsoon ends in November .
Nothing that is likely to happen , however , should prompt the sending of United States soldiers for other than instructional missions .
The Indochina struggle was a war to stay out of in 1954 , when Gen. Ridgway estimated it would take a minimum of 10 to 15 divisions at the outset to win a war the French were losing .
It is a war to stay out of today , especially in view of the fact that President Ngo Dinh Diem apparently does not want United States troops .
He may want additional technical help , and this should be forthcoming .
South Viet Nam has received $1,450,000,000 in United States aid since 1954 and the rate of assistance has been stepped up since Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson's visit last May .
Gen. Taylor , the President's special military adviser , is a level-headed officer who is not likely to succumb to propaganda or pressure .
It is probable that his recommendations will be informed and workable , and that they will not lead to involving the United States in an Asian morass .
Gov. John M. Dalton , himself a lawyer and a man of long service in government , spoke with rich background and experience when he said in an address here that lawyers ought to quit sitting in the Missouri General Assembly , or quit accepting fees from individuals and corporations who have controversies with or axes to grind with the government and who are retained , not because of their legal talents , but because of their government influence .
The U.N.'s ' gravest crisis '
Ambassador Stevenson yesterday described the U.N.'s problem of electing a temporary successor to the late Dag Hammarskjold as `` the gravest crisis the institution has faced '' .
Of course it is .
If the decision goes wrong , it may be -- as Mr. Stevenson fears -- `` the first step on the slippery path downhill '' to a U.N. without operational responsibilities and without effective meaning .
The integrity of the office not merely requires that the Secretary General shall be , as the Charter puts it , `` the chief administrative officer of the Organization '' , but that neither he nor his staff shall seek or receive instructions from any government or any other authority `` external to the Organization '' .
In other words , the Secretary General is to be a nonpartisan , international servant , not a political , national one .
He should be , as Dag Hammarskjold certainly was , a citizen of the world .
The Charter does stipulate that `` due regard '' shall be paid to the importance of recruiting the staff on `` as wide a geographical basis as possible '' .
The United States and its allies have had no objection to this .
What they have objected to is the attempt of the Russians to make use of the tragedy of Dag Hammarskjold's death to turn the entire U.N. staff from the Secretary down into political agents of the respective countries from which they come .
The controversy now revolves mainly around the number and geographic origin of the deputies of the Secretary General and , more particularly , around the nature of his relationship with them .
Although the United States and the U.S.S.R. have been arguing whether there shall be four , five or six top assistants , the most important element in the situation is not the number of deputies but the manner in which these deputies are to do their work .
If any one of them has any power to veto the Secretary General's decisions the nature of the organization will have changed .
If they give him advice when he asks it , or if they perform specified duties under his direction , the nature of the U. N. will not of necessity change .
The Secretary General must have , subject to the constitutional direction of the Security Council and the General Assembly , the power to act , to propose action and to organize action without being hobbled by advisers and assistants acting on someone else's instructions .
This is the root issue for which the United States should stand .
We should not become confused or let our public become confused over irrelevant questions of number or even of geography .
What we must have , if the United Nations is to survive , is as nonpolitical , nonpartisan an organization at the top as human beings can make it , subject to no single nation's direction and subservient to no single nation's ambition .
What the new charter does
The new City Charter , which should get a Yes vote as Question No. 1 on Nov. 7 , would not make a good Mayor out of a bad one .
There is no such magic in man-made laws .
But it would greatly strengthen any Mayor's executive powers , remove the excuse in large degree that he is a captive of inaction in the Board of Estimate , increase his budget-making authority both as to expense and capital budgets , and vest in him the right to reorganize city departments in the interest of efficiency and economy .
Lawmaking power is removed from the Board of Estimate and made a partnership responsibility of the City Council and the Mayor .
Thus there is a clearer division of authority , administrative and legislative .
The board is diminished in both respects , while it retains control over zoning , franchises , pier leases , sale , leasing and assignment of property , and other trusteeship functions .
The board will be able to increase , decrease , add or eliminate budget items , subject to the Mayor's veto ; ;
but the City Council will now share fully this budget-altering power .
Overriding of mayoral veto on budget changes will require concurrence by board and Council , and a two-thirds vote .
The Controller retains his essential `` fiscal watchdog '' functions ; ;
his broad but little used investigative powers are confirmed .
He loses now-misplaced tax collection duties , which go to the Finance Department .
On net balance , in spite of Controller Gerosa's opposition to the new Charter as an invasion of his office , the Controller will have the opportunity for greater usefulness to good government than he has now .
Borough Presidents , while retaining membership in the Board of Estimate , lose their housekeeping functions .
Highways go to a new Department of Highways , sewers to the Department of Public Works , such street cleaning as Borough Presidents now do ( in Queens and Richmond ) to the Sanitation Department .
Some fiscal changes are important .
The expense ( operating ) budget is to be a program budget , and red tape is cut to allow greater autonomy ( with the Mayor approving ) in fund transfers within a department .
The capital budget , for construction of permanent improvements , becomes an appropriating document instead of just a calendar of pious promises ; ;
but , as a second-look safeguard , each new project must undergo a Board of Estimate public hearing before construction proceeds .
A road block to desirable local or borough improvements , heretofore dependent on the pocketbook vote of taxpayers and hence a drag on progress , is removed by making these a charge against the whole city instead of an assessment paid by those immediately affected .
This will have a beneficial effect by expediting public business ; ;
it will also correct some injustices .
Enlargement of the City Council and a new method of selecting members will be discussed tomorrow .
Inter-american Press
The Inter-american Press Association , which blankets the Western Hemisphere from northern Canada to Cape Horn , is meeting in New York City this week for the first time in eleven years .
The I. A. P. A. is a reflection of the problems and hopes of the hemisphere ; ;
and in these days this inevitably means a concentration on the effects of the Cuban revolution .
As the press in Cuba was gradually throttled by the Castro regime , more and more Cuban publishers , editors and correspondents were forced into exile .
The I. A. P. A. found itself driven from journalism into politics as it did its best to bring about the downfall of the Castro Government and the return of the Cuban press to the freedom it knew before Batista's dictatorship began in 1952 .
Freedom of the press was lost in Cuba because of decades of corruption and social imbalances .
In such conditions all freedoms are lost .
This , in more diplomatic language , is what Adlai Stevenson told the newspaper men of Latin America yesterday on behalf of the United States Government .
He felt able to end on a note of hope .
He sees evidence of fair winds for the ten-year Alliance for Progress plan with its emphasis on social reforms .
No group can contribute more to the success of the program than the editors and publishers of the Inter-American Press Association .
Meeting in Moscow
The Twenty-second Soviet Communist Party Congress opens in Moscow today in a situation contrasting sharply with the script prepared many months ago when this meeting was first announced .
According to the original program , Premier Khrushchev expected the millions looking toward the Kremlin this morning to be filled with admiration or rage -- depending upon individual or national politics -- because of the `` bold program for building communism in our time '' which the Congress will adopt .
But far from being concerned about whether or not Russia will have achieved Utopia by 1980 , the world is watching Moscow today primarily for clues as to whether or not there will be nuclear Armageddon in the immediate future .
The evident contradiction between the rosy picture of Russia's progress painted by the Communist party's program and the enormous dangers for all humanity posed by Premier Khrushchev's Berlin policy has already led to speculation abroad that the program may be severely altered .
Whether it is or not , the propaganda impact on the free world of the document scheduled to be adopted at this meeting will be far less than had been originally anticipated .
And there must be many Soviet citizens who know what is going on and who realize that before they can hope to enjoy the full life promised for 1980 they and their children must first survive .
This Congress will see Premier Khrushchev consolidating his power and laying the groundwork for an orderly succession should death or illness remove him from the scene in the next few years .
The widespread purge that has taken place the past twelve months or so among Communist leaders in the provinces gives assurance that the party officials who will dominate the Congress , and the Central Committee it will elect , will all have passed the tightest possible Khrushchev screening , both for loyalty to him and for competence and performance on the job .
Dr. Conant's call to action
Dr. James B. Conant has earned a nationwide reputation as a moderate and unemotional school reformer .
His earlier reports considered the American public schools basically sound and not in need of drastic change .
Now , a close look at the schools in and around the ten largest cities , including New York , has shattered this optimism .
Dr. Conant has come away shocked and angry .
His new book , entitled `` Slums And Suburbs '' , calls for fast and drastic action to avert disaster .
There is room for disagreement concerning some of Dr. Conant's specific views .
His strong opposition to the transfer of Negro children to schools outside their own neighborhood , in the interest of integration , will be attacked by Negro leaders who have fought for , and achieved , this open or permissive enrollment .
Dr. Conant may underestimate the psychological importance of even token equality .
His suggestion that the prestige colleges be made the training institutions for medical , law and graduate schools will run into strong opposition from these colleges themselves -- even though what he is recommending is already taking shape as a trend .
But these are side issues to a powerful central theme .
That theme cuts through hypocrisies , complacency and double-talk .
It labels the slums , especially the Negro slums , as dead-end streets for hundreds of thousands of youngsters .
The villains of the piece are those who deny job opportunities to these youngsters , and Dr. Conant accuses employers and labor unions alike .
The facts , he adds , are hidden from public view by squeamish objections to calling bad conditions by their right name and by insistence on token integration rather than on real improvement of the schools , regardless of the color of their students .
A call for action `` before it is too late '' has alarming implications when it comes from a man who , in his previous reports on the schools , cautioned so strongly against extreme measures .
These warnings must not be treated lightly .
Dr. Conant's conscientious , selfless efforts deserve the nation's gratitude .
He has served in positions of greater glamour , both at home and abroad ; ;
but he may well be doing his greatest service with his straightforward report on the state of the public schools .
And now -- more junk mail
A fascinating letter has just reached this desk from a correspondent who likes to receive so-called junk mail .
He was delighted to learn that the Post Office Department is now going to expand this service to deliver mail from Representatives in Congress to their constituents without the use of stamps , names , addresses or even zone numbers .
In accordance with legislation passed at the last session of Congress , each Representative is authorized to deliver to the Post Office in bulk newsletters , speeches and other literature to be dropped in every letter box in his district .
This means an added burden to innumerable postmen , who already are complaining of heavy loads and low pay , and it presumably means an increased postal deficit , but , our correspondent writes , think of the additional junk mail each citizen will now be privileged to receive on a regular basis .
Our creditors do not forget us
Letter writing is a dying art .
Occasional letters are sent by individuals to one another and many are written by companies to one another , but these are mostly typewritten .
Most mail these days consists of nothing that could truly be called a letter .
Old , tired , trembling the woman came to the cannery .
She had , she said , heard that the plant was closing .
It couldn't close , she said .
She had raised a calf , grown it beef-fat .
She had , with her own work-weary hands , put seeds in the ground , watched them sprout , bud , blossom , and get ready to bear .
She was ready to kill the beef , dress it out , and with vegetables from her garden was going to can soup , broth , hash , and stew against the winter .
She had done it last year , and the year before , and the year before that , and she , and her people were dependent upon these cans for food .
This did not happen in counties of North Georgia , where the rivers run and make rich the bottom land .
Nor in South Georgia , where the summer sun shines warmly and gives early life to the things growing in the flat fields .
This happened in Decatur , DeKalb County , not 10 miles from the heart of metropolitian Atlanta .
And now , the woman , tired and trembling , came here to the DeKalb County cannery .
`` Is it so the cannery is going to close '' ? ?
O. N. Moss , 61 , tall , grey as a possum , canning plant chief since 1946 , didn't know what to say .
He did say she could get her beef and vegetables in cans this summer .
He did say he was out of cans , the No. 3's , but `` I requisitioned 22,000 '' .
He said he had No. 2's enough to last two weeks more .
Threat of closing the cannery is a recent one .
A three-man committee has recommended to Commission Chairman Charles O. Emmerich that the DeKalb County cannery be closed .
Reason : the cannery loses $3,000 yearly .
But DeKalb citizens , those who use the facilities of the cannery , say the cannery is not supposed to make any money .
`` The cannery '' , said Mrs. Lewellyn Lundeen , an active booster of the cannery since its opening during the war and rationing years of 1941 , to handle the `` victory garden '' produce , `` is a service to the taxpayer .
And one of the best services available to the people who try to raise and can meat , to plant , grow vegetables and put them up .
It helps those people who help themselves .
`` The county , though , seems more interested in those people who don't even try , those who sit and draw welfare checks and line up for surplus food '' .
A driver of a dairy truck , who begins work at 1 a.m. finishes before breakfast , then goes out and grows a garden , and who has used the cannery to save and feed a family of five , asked , `` What in the world will we do '' ? ?
`` What in the world '' , echoed others , those come with the beans , potatoes , the tomatoes , `` will any of us do '' ? ?
Moss , a man who knows how much the cannery helps the county , doesn't believe it will close .
But he is in the middle , an employe of DeKalb , but on the side of the people .
The young married people ; ;
the old couples .
The dairy truck driver ; ;
the old woman with the stew .
`` Don't ask me if I think the cannery helps '' , he said .
`` Sir , I know the cannery helps '' .
Most of us would be willing to admit that forgiveness comes hard .
When a person has thoughtlessly or deliberately caused us pain or hardship it is not always easy to say , `` Just forget it '' .
There is one thing I know ; ;
a person will never have spiritual poise and inner peace as long as the heart holds a grudge .
I know a man who held resentment against a neighbor for more than three decades .
Several years ago I was his pastor .
One night , at the close of the evening service , he came forward , left his resentment at the altar and gave his heart to God .
After almost everyone had gone he told me the simple story of how one of his neighbors had moved a fence a few feet over on his land .
`` We tried to settle this dispute '' , he said , `` but could never come to an agreement .
I settled it tonight '' , he continued .
`` I leave this church with a feeling that a great weight has been lifted off my heart , I have left my grudge at the altar and forgiven my neighbor '' .
Forgiveness is the door through which a person must pass to enter the Kingdom of God .
You cannot wear the banner of God and at the same time harbor envy , jealousy and grudges in your heart .
Henry Van Dyke said , `` Forgive and forget if you can ; ;
but forgive anyway '' .
Jesus made three things clear about forgiveness .
We must , first of all , be willing to forgive others before we can secure God's forgiveness .
`` For if ye forgive men their trespasses , your heavenly Father will also forgive you : but if ye forgive not men their trespasses , neither will your Father forgive -- your trespasses '' .
Matthew 6 : 14-15 .
It will do no good to seek God's forgiveness until we have forgiven those who have done us wrong .
Then , Jesus indicated that God's forgiveness is unlimited .
In the prayer Jesus taught his disciples to pray we find these words , `` Forgive us our debts '' .
When a person meets God's requirements for the experience of forgiveness he is forgiven .
God's mercy and patience will last forever .
Forgiveness implies more than a person wanting his past sins covered by God's love .
It also implies that a man wants his future to be free from the mistakes of the past .
We want the past forgiven , but at the same time we must be willing for God to direct the future .
Finally , we must be willing to forgive others as many times as they sin against us .
Once Peter asked , `` How oft shall my brother sin against me , and I forgive him ? ?
Till seven times ? ?
Jesus saith unto him , until seventy times seven '' .
Matthew 18 : 21-22 .
Jesus not only taught forgiveness , He gave us an example of it on the cross .
With all the energy of his broken body he prayed , `` Father , forgive them , for they know not what they do '' .
Luke 23:34 .
She's been in and out of my house for a dozen years now , although she's still a teen-ager who looks like a baby , she is getting married .
Her mother , now dead , was my good friend and when she came to tell us about her plans and to show off her ring I had a sobering wish to say something meaningful to her , something her mother would wish said .
For a while there was such shrill girlish commotion I couldn't have made myself heard if I'd had the equivalent of the message to Garcia .
But when some of the squeals had subsided and she had been through one of those sessions that are so indispensable to the young female -- six girls sprawled on one bed , drinking Cokes and giggling -- she came back to the kitchen to talk with me a minute .
`` How do you know you love somebody enough to get married '' ? ?
She asked .
It was the oldest and toughest question young lovers have ever asked : How can you be sure ? ?
`` Aren't you sure '' ? ?
I asked , looking at her searchingly .
I wanted to grab her by the arm and beg her to wait , to consider , to know for certain because life is so long and marriage is so important .
But if she were just having a normal case of pre-nuptial jitters such a question might frighten her out of a really good marriage .
Besides , in all honesty , I don't know how you can be sure .
I don't know any secret recipe for certainty .
In the fevered , intoxicating , breathless state of being in love the usual signposts that guide you to lasting and satisfying relationships are sometimes obscured .
I knew of but one test and I threw it out to her for what it was worth .
`` Does he ever bore you '' ? ?
I asked .
`` Bore me '' ? ?
She was shocked .
Oh , no-o ! !
Why , he's so darling and ''
`` I mean '' , I went on ruthlessly , `` when he's not talking about you or himself or the wonders of love , is he interesting ? ?
Does he care about things that matter to you ? ?
Can you visualize being stranded with him on a desert island for years and years and still find him fascinating ? ?
Because , honey , I thought silently , there are plenty of desert islands in every marriage -- long periods when you're hopelessly stranded , together .
And if you bore each other then , heaven help you .
She came back the other day to reassure me .
She has studied and observed and she is convinced that her young man is going to be endlessly enchanting .
She asked if I had other advice and , heady with success , I rushed it in , I hope not too late .
Be friends with your mother-in-law .
Jokes , cartoons and cynics to the contrary , mothers-in-law make good friends .
I do not know Dr. Wilson Sneed well .
But I was deeply moved by his letter of resignation as rector of St. Luke's Church in Atlanta .
It was the cry of not just one heart ; ;
it spoke for many in the clergy , I suspect .
The pulpit is a lonely place .
Who stops to think of that ? ?
Imagine the searching and the prayer that lay behind the letter the rector wrote after almost a decade of service to this majestic church .
`` Such a church needs vigor and vitality in its rector and one man has only so much of these endowments '' , he told his members .
A minister should not stay `` beyond the time that his leadership should benefit '' his church , he wrote , `` for he becomes ordinary .
''
And so the young minister resigned , to go and study and pray , having never passed a day , he told his parishioners , when `` I did not gain from you far more than I ever gave to you '' .
His very honest act called up the recent talk I had with another minister , a modest Methodist , who said : `` I feel so deeply blessed by God when I can give a message of love and comfort to other men , and I would have it no other way : and it is unworthy to think of self .
But oh , how I do sometimes need just a moment of rest , and peace , in myself '' .
A man who gives himself to God and to the believers of his church takes upon himself a life of giving .
He does not expect to get great riches or he would not have chosen to answer the call to preach .
The good ones are not motivated to seek vainly , nor are they disposed to covet comfort , or they would have been led to fields that offer comfort and feed vanity .
Theirs is a sacrificial life by earthly standards .
Yet we who lean upon such a man and draw strength from him and expect interpretation of the infinite through him -- we who readily accept his sacrifice as our due , we of the congregations are the first to tell him what is in our minds instead of listening to what is in his soul .
We press him to conform to our comfortable conceptions and not to bruise our satisfactions with his word , and God's .
We do not defeat the good ones with this cruelty , but we add to their burden , while expecting them to bestow saintliness upon us in return for ostentatious church attendance and a few bucks a week , American cash .
If we break the minister to our bit , we are buying back our own sins .
If he won't break , we add to the stress he bears .
And a minister of all men is most conscious that he is mere man -- prone to the stresses that earthly humanity is heir to .
We expect him to be noble , and to make us so -- yet he knows , and tries to tell us , how very humble man must be .
We expect bestowal of God's love through him .
But how little love we give him .
The church truly is not a rest home for saints , but a hospital for sinners .
Yet every Sunday we sinners go to that emergency room to receive first aid , and we leave unmindful that the man who ministered to us is a human being who suffers , too .
Mr. Podger always particularly enjoyed the last night of each summer at Loon Lake .
The narrow fringe of sadness that ran around it only emphasized the pleasure .
The evening was not always spent in the same way .
This year , on a night cool with the front of September moving in , but with plenty of summer still about , the Podgers were holding a neighborhood gathering in the Pod .
The little cottage was bursting with people of all ages .
In the midst of it all , Mr. Podger came out on the Pod porch , alone .
He had that day attended a country auction , and he had come back with a prize .
The prize was an old-fashioned , woven cloth hammock , complete with cross-top pillow , fringed side pieces , and hooks for hanging .
Mrs. Podger had obligingly pushed things around on the porch to make room for it , and there it was , slung in a vine-shaded corner , the night breeze rippling its fringe with a slow , caressing movement .
Mr. Podger sat down in it , pushed himself back and forth in one or two slow , rhythmic motions , and then swung his feet up into it .
He closed his eyes and let the unintelligible drift of voices sweep pleasantly over him .
Suddenly one young voice rose above the others .
`` But '' , it said , `` do you always know when you're happy '' ? ?
The voice sank back into the general tangle of sound , but the question stayed in Mr. Podger's mind .
Here , in the cool , autumn-touched evening , Mr. Podger mentally retraced a day that had left him greatly contented and at peace .
It had begun with the blue jay feather .
Walking along the lake before breakfast , Mr. Podger had seen the feather , and the bird that had lost it in flight .
The winging spread of blue had gone on , calling harshly , into the wood .
The small shaft of blue had drifted down and come to rest at his feet .
All day long Mr. Podger , who was a straw-hat man in the summer , had worn the feather in the band of his broad-brimmed sunshield .
Would a blue feather in a man's hat make him happy all day ? ?
Hardly .
But it was something to have seen it floating down through the early morning sunshine , linking the blue of the sky with the blue of the asters by the lake .
Then , since the auction was being held nearby , he had walked to it .
And there , on the way , had been the box turtle , that slow , self-contained , world-ignoring relic of pre-history , bent , for reasons best known to itself , on crossing the road .
It was doing very well , too , having reached the center , and was pursuing its way with commendable singleness of purpose when Mr. Podger saw hazard approaching in the shape of a flashy little sports car .
Would the driver see the turtle ? ?
Would he take pains to avoid it ? ?
Mr. Podger took no chances .
Taking off his hat and signaling the driver with it , Mr. Podger stepped into the road , lifted the surprised turtle and consummated its road-crossing with what must have been a breath-taking suddenness .
The turtle immediately withdrew into its private council room to study the phenomenon .
But Mr. Podger and the driver of the sports car waved at each other .
Here in the cool darkness Mr. Podger could still feel the warmth of midday , could still see the yellow butterflies dancing over the road , could still see the friendly grin on the young , sun-browned face as the driver looked back over his shoulder for a moment before the car streaked out of sight .
Where was the driver now ? ?
What was he doing ? ?
And the turtle ? ?
Mr. Podger smiled .
For a few brief minutes they had all been part of one little drama .
The three would never meet again , but for some reason or other Mr. Podger was sure he would always remember the incident .
Then there had been the auction itself .
Mr. Podger heard again ; ;
at will , the voice of the auctioneer , the voices of the bidders , and finally the small boy who had been so interested in Mr. Podger's hammock purchase .
`` I like them things , too '' , he had said .
`` We got one at home .
You know what ? ?
If you're lyin' out in the hammock at night , and it gets kinda cool -- you know -- you just take these sides with the fringe on -- see -- and wrap 'em right over you .
I do it , lots o' times -- I like to lie in a hammock at night , by myself , when it's all quiet .
The wind moves it a little bit -- you know .
''
Mr. Podger had thanked him gravely , and now he made use of the advice .
As he pulled the fringed sides up and made himself into a cocoon , Mr. Podger saw that thin , attractive , freckled little face again , and hoped that the boy , too , was lying in a cool , fringed-wrapped quiet .
Alacrity , the Podger cat , came by the hammock , rubbed her back briefly against it , and then , sure of a welcome , hopped up .
She remarked that she found the night wind a little chilly , and Mr. Podger took her inside the fringe .
Soon her purring rivaled the chirping of the tree crickets , rivaled the hum of voices from inside the Pod .
Mr. Podger was just adding this to his pictures of the day when the screen door opened and Pam burst out .
`` Dad '' ! !
She said .
`` It's getting so chilly we've lighted a fire , and we're going to tell a round robin story -- a nice , scary one .
We need you to start it .
Why are you out here all by yourself ? ?
Aren't you happy '' ? ?
Mr. Podger opened his cocoon and emerged , tucking Alacrity under his arm to bring her in by the fire .
`` Of course I am '' , he said .
`` Never happier in my life .
I just came out here to know it '' .
Dallas
As the South begins another school year , national and even world attention is directed at the region's slow progress toward racial equality in the public schools .
Desegregation is beginning in two more important Southern cities -- Dallas and Atlanta .
In each city civic and education leaders have been working hard to get public opinion prepared to accept the inevitability of equal treatment .
These programs emphasize the acceptance of biracial classrooms peacefully .
The programs do not take sides on the issue itself .
They point out simply that `` it is the law of the land '' .
The two cities have the examples of Little Rock and New Orleans to hold up as warnings against resorting to violence to try to stop the processes of desegregation .
Even better , they have the examples of Nashville and Houston to hold up as peaceful and progressive programs .
In each case there was an initial act of violence .
In Nashville , a school was dynamited .
In Houston , there were a few incidents of friction between whites and Negroes , none of which were serious .
In each city quick public reaction and fast action by the city government halted the threats of more serious incidents .
The Nashville plan , incidentally , has become recognized as perhaps the most acceptable and thus the most practical to put into effect in the troubled South .
It is a `` stair-step '' plan , in which desegregation begins in the first grade .
Each year another grade is added to the process , until finally all 12 grades are integrated .
The schedules are flexible so that the program can be accelerated as the public becomes more tolerant or realizes that it is something that has to be done , `` so why not now '' .
The program has worked well in both Nashville and Houston .
It met a serious rebuff in New Orleans , where the two schools selected for the first moves toward integration were boycotted by white parents .
Another attempt will be made this year in New Orleans to resume the program .
Generally , throughout the South , there is a growing impatience with the pattern of violence with which every step of desegregation is met .
Perhaps the most eloquent move toward removal of racial barriers has been in Dallas .
During the summer , Negroes began quietly patronizing previously segregated restaurants and lunch counters in downtown retail establishments .
It was part of a citywide move toward full integration .
So successful has been this program , worked out by white and Negro civic leaders , that further extensions are expected in the next few months .
Hotels , for example , are ready to let down the bars .
Already , at least one hotel has been quietly taking reservations on a nonracial basis .
Several conventions have been held in recent months in hotels on a nonsegregated basis .
This is a radical change in attitude from the conditions which prevailed several years ago , when a series of bombings was directed against Negroes who were moving into previously all-white neighborhoods of Dallas .
It is also symptomatic of a change in attitude which appears to be spreading all across the South .
Southern whites themselves are realizing that they had been wrong in using violence to try to stop Negroes from claiming equal rights .
They insist they are ashamed of such violence and intimidation as occurred in Alabama when the Freedom Riders sought to break down racial discrimination in local bus depots .
All across the South there are signs that racial violence is finding less approval among whites who themselves would never take active part but might once have shown a tolerant attitude toward it .
There are many causes for this change .
One of the most important is economic .
Business leaders are aware now that they suffer greatly from any outbreak of violence .
They are putting strong pressure on their police departments to keep order .
In the past these same Southerners were inclined to look the other way .
And as the businessmen have begun to act , a real sense of co-operation has sprung up .
This co-operation has emboldened other Southern whites to add their voices to demands for peaceable accommodation .
They realize that by acting in concert , rather than individually , they will not be picked out as objects of retaliation -- economic and otherwise .
Since moving from a Chicago suburb to Southern California a few months ago , I've been introduced to a new game called Lanesmanship .
Played mostly on the freeways around Los Angeles , it goes like this :
A driver cruising easily at 70 m.p.h. in Lane A of a four-lane freeway spies an incipient traffic jam ahead .
Traffic in the next lane appears to be moving more smoothly so he pokes a tentative fender into Lane B , which is heavily populated by cars also moving at 70 m.p.h. .
The adjacent driver in Lane B has three choices open to him .
He can ( 1 ) point his car resolutely at the invading fender and force the other driver back into Lane A ; ;
( 2 ) slow down and permit the ambivalent driver to change lanes ; ;
or ( 3 ) alternately accelerate and decelerate , thus keeping the first driver guessing as to his intentions , thereby making a fascinating sport of the whole affair .
The really remarkable thing to me is that most California natives unhesitatingly elect to slow down and permit the invading car free access .
Whether or not this is done out of enlightened self-preservation , I don't know .
But it is done , consistently and I'm both surprised and impressed .
This could never happen in my native Chicago .
There such soggy acquiesence would be looked upon as a sure sign of deteriorating manhood .
In Chicago , the driver cut out would likely jam his gas pedal to the floor in an effort to force the other car back .
Failing this , he would pull alongside at the first opportunity and shake his fist threateningly .
This negative explanation of courtesy on the freeways , however , does an injustice to Southern California drivers .
At the risk of losing my charge-a-plate at Marshall Field and Company , I would like to challenge an old and hallowed stereotype .
After three months of research , I can state unequivocally that Los Angeles drivers are considerably more courteous and competent than any other drivers I've ever encountered .
During one recent day of driving about Los Angeles there were actually a dozen occasions when oncoming drivers stopped an entire lane of traffic to permit me to pull out of an impossible side street .
Miami , Fla. , March 17 .
An out-of-town writer came up to Paul Richards today and asked the Oriole manager if he thought his ball club would be improved this year .
Now Richards , of course , is known as a deep thinker as baseball managers go .
He can often make the complex ridiculously simple , and vice versa .
This happened to be vice versa , but even so , the answer was a masterpiece .
`` It's a whole lot easier '' , he said , `` to increase the population of Nevada , than it is to increase the population of New York city '' .
And with that he walked off to give instruction to a rookie pitcher .
`` That is undoubtedly a hell of a quote '' , said the writer , scratching his head .
`` Now , if I can just figure out what he's talking about , I'll use it '' .
Two spots open
This was just Richard's way of saying that last year the Birds opened spring training with a lot of jobs wide open .
Some brilliant rookies nailed them down , so that this spring just two spots , left and right field , are really up for grabs .
It should be easier to plug two spots than it was to fill the wholesale lots that were open last year , but so far it hasn't worked that way .
This angle of just where the Orioles can look for improvement this year is an interesting one .
You'd never guess it from the way they've played so far this spring , but there remains a feeling among some around here that the Orioles still have a chance to battle for the pennant in 1961 .
Obviously , if this club is going to move from second to first in the American League , it will have to show improvement someplace .
Where can that improvement possibly come from ? ?
You certainly can't expect the infield to do any better than it did last year .
Robby could be better
.
Brooks Robinson is great , and it is conceivable that he'll do even better in 1961 than he did in 1960 .
You can't expect it , though .
Robby's performance last year was tremendous .
It's the same with Ron Hansen and Jim Gentile .
If they do as well as they did in 1960 there can be no complaint .
They shouldn't be asked to carry any more of the burden .
Hansen will be getting a late spring training start , which might very well set him back .
He got off to an exceptional start last season , and under the circumstances probably won't duplicate it .
There are some clubs which claim they learned something about pitching to him last year .
They don't expect to stop him , just slow him down some with the bat .
He'll still be a top player , they concede , because he's got a great glove and the long ball going for him .
But they expect to reduce his over-all offensive production .
Breeding might move up
.
Gentile can hardly do better than drive in 98 runs .
Don't ask him more .
I have a hunch Marv Breeding might move up a notch .
But even so , he had a good year in 1960 and won't do too much better .
So , all in all , the infield can't be expected to supply the added improvement to propel the Birds from second to first .
And the pitching will also have trouble doing better .
Richards got a great performance out of his combination of youth and experience last season .
Where , then , can we look for improvement ? ?
`` From Triandos , Brandt and Walker '' , answers Richards .
`` They're the ones we can expect to do better '' .
The man is right , and at this time , indications are that these three are ready for better seasons .
Triandos hasn't proved it yet , but he says he's convinced his thumb is all right .
He jammed it this spring and has had to rest it , but he says the old injury hasn't bothered him .
If he can bounce back with one of those 25 home runs years , the club will have to be better off offensively .
I'm still not convinced , though , I'll have to see more of him before predicting that big year for him .
Hank Foiles , backed up by Frank House who will be within calling distance in the minors , make up better second line catching than the Birds had all last year , but Gus is still that big man you need when you start talking pennant .
To me , Brandt looks as though he could be in for a fine year .
He hasn't played too much , because Richards has been working on him furiously in batting practice .
He's hitting the ball hard , in the batting cage , and his whole attitude is improved over this time last year .
When he came to Baltimore , he was leaving a team which was supposed to win the National League pennant , and he was joining what seemed to be a second division American League club .
He was down , hard to talk to , and far too nonchalant on the field .
As of now , that all seems behind him .
He's been entirely different all spring .
And Walker looks stronger , seems to be throwing better than he did last year .
Let him bounce back , and he could really set up the staff .
So , if the Orioles are to improve , Brandt , Triandos and Walker will have to do it .
So far the platoons on left and right fielders don't seem capable of carrying the load .
Of course , this isn't taking into consideration the population of Nevada and New York city , but it's the way things look from here at this point .
Is the mother of an `` autistic '' child at fault ? ?
( The `` autistic '' child is one who seems to lack a well-defined sense of self .
He tends to treat himself and other people as if they were objects -- and sometimes he treats objects as if they were people .
) Did his mother make him this way ? ?
Some people believe she did .
We think differently .
We believe that autism , like so many other conditions of defect and deviation , is to a large extent inborn .
A mother can help a child adapt to his difficulties .
Sometimes she can -- to a large extent -- help him overcome them .
But we don't think she creates them .
We don't think she can make her child defective , emotionally disturbed or autistic .
The mother of a difficult child can do a great deal to help her own child and often , by sharing her experiences , she can help other mothers with the same problem .
Since little is known about autism , and almost nothing has been written for the layman , we'd like to share one experienced mother's comments .
She wrote :
total disinterest
`` .
As the mother of an autistic child who is lacking in interest and enthusiasm about almost anything , I have to manipulate my son's fingers for him when he first plays with a new toy .
He wants me to do everything for him .
`` You don't believe that autistic children become autistic because of something that happens to them or because of the way their mother treats them .
But I do and my psychiatrist does , too .
I know , that my son wants control and direction , but being autistic myself I cannot give full control or direction .
`` One thing I notice which I have seldom heard mentioned .
This is that autistic people don't enjoy physical contact with others -- for instance , my children and I .
When I hold my son he stiffens his whole body in my arms until he is as straight and stiff as a board .
He pushes and straightens himself as if he can't stand the feeling of being held .
Physical contact is uncomfortable for him '' ! !
This mother is quite correct .
As a rule , the autistic child doesn't enjoy physical contact with others .
Parents have to find other ways of comforting him .
For the young child this may be no more than providing food , light or movement .
As he grows older it may be a matter of providing some accustomed object ( his `` magic '' thing ) .
Or certain words or rituals that child and adult go through may do the trick .
The answer is different for each autistic child , but for most there is an answer .
Only ingenuity will uncover it .
What future holds
`` Dear Doctors : We learned this year that our older son , Daniel , is autistic .
We did not accept the diagnosis at once , but gradually we are coming to .
Fortunately , there is a nursery school which he has been able to attend , with a group of normal children .
`` I try to treat Daniel as if he were normal , though of course I realize he is far from that at present .
What I do is to try to bring him into contact with reality as much as possible .
I try to give him as many normal experiences as possible .
`` What is your experience with autistic children ? ?
How do they turn out later '' ? ?
Many autistic children grow up to lead relatively normal lives .
Certainly , most continue to lack a certain warmth in communication with other people , but many adjust to school , even college , to jobs and even to marriage and parenthood .
Single-color use
question
-- A first grader colors pictures one solid color , everything -- sky , grass , boy , wagon , etc. .
When different colors are used , she is just as likely to color trees purple , hair green , etc. .
The other children in the class use this same coloring book and do a fairly good job with things their proper color .
Should I show my daughter how things should be colored ? ?
She is an aggressive , nervous child .
Is a relaxed home atmosphere enough to help her outgrow these traits ? ?
Answer
-- Her choice of one color means she is simply enjoying the motor act of coloring , without having reached the point of selecting suitable colors for different objects .
This immature use of crayons may suggest that she is a little immature for the first grade .
No , coloring isn't exactly something you teach a child .
You sometimes give them a little demonstration , a little guidance , and suggestions about staying inside the lines .
But most learn to color and paint as and when they are ready with only a very little demonstration .
Seen in decorating circles of late is a renewed interest in an old art : embroidery .
Possibly responsible for this is the incoming trend toward multicolor schemes in rooms , which seems slated to replace the one-color look to which we have been accustomed .
Just as a varitinted Oriental rug may suggest the starting point for a room scheme , so may some of the newest versions of embroidery .
One such , in fact , is a rug .
Though not actually crewel embroidery , it has that look with its over-stitched raised pattern in blue , pink , bronze and gold and a sauterne background .
The twirled , stylized design of winding stems and floral forms strongly suggests the embroidered patterns used so extensively for upholstery during the Jacobean period in England .
Traditional crewel embroidery which seems to be appearing more frequently this fall than in the past few years is still available in this country .
The work is executed in England ( by hand ) and can be worked in any desired design and color .
Among some recent imports were seat covers for one series of dining room chairs on which were depicted salad plates overflowing with tomatoes and greens and another set on which a pineapple was worked in naturalistic color .
Chinese influence
For a particularly fabulous room which houses a collection of fine English Chippendale furniture , fabric wall panels were embroidered with a typically Chinese-inspired design of this revered Eighteenth Century period .
Since the work is done by hand , the only limitation , it is said , `` is that of human conception '' .
Modern embroidered panels , framed and meant to be hung on the wall , are another aspect of this trend .
These have never gone out of style in Scandinavian homes and now seem to be reappearing here and there in shops which specialize in handicrafts .
An amateur decorator might try her hand at a pair during the long winter evenings , and , by picking up her living room color scheme , add a decorative do-it-yourself note to the room .
California Democrats this weekend will take the wraps off a 1962 model statewide campaign vehicle which they have been quietly assembling in a thousand district headquarters , party clubrooms and workers' backyards .
They seem darned proud of it .
And they're confident that the GOP , currently assailed by dissensions within the ranks , will be impressed by the purring power beneath the hood of this grassroots-fueled machine .
Their meeting at San Francisco is nominally scheduled as a conference of the California Democratic Council directorate .
But it will include 200-odd officeholders , organization leaders and `` interested party people '' .
Out of this session may come : 1
-- Plans for a dramatic , broad-scale party rally in Los Angeles next December that would enlist top-drawer Democrats from all over the country .
2
-- Blueprints for doubling the CDC's present 55,000 enrollment .
3
-- Arrangements for a statewide pre-primary endorsing convention in Fresno next Jan. 26-28 .
4
-- And proposals for a whole series of lesser candidate-picking conventions in the state's 38 new Congressional districts .
At the head of the CDC is an unorthodox , 39-year-old amateur politico , Thomas B. Carvey Jr. , whose normal profession is helping develop Hughes Aircraft's moon missiles .
He's approached his Democratic duties in hard-nosed engineering fashion .
Viewed from afar , the CDC looks like a rather stalwart political pyramid : its elected directorate fans out into an array of district leaders and standing committees , and thence into its component clubs and affiliated groups -- 500 or so .
Much of its strength stems from the comfortable knowledge that every `` volunteer '' Democratic organization of any consequence belongs to the Aj .
Moreover , the entire state Democratic hierarchy , from Gov. Brown on down to the county chairmen , also participates in this huge operation .
Contrarily , Republican `` volunteers '' go their separate ways , and thus far have given no indication that they'd be willing to join forces under a single directorate , except in the most loose-knit fashion .
Carvey believes that reapportionment , which left many Democratic clubs split by these new district boundaries , actually will increase CDC membership .
Where only one club existed before , he says , two will flourish henceforth .
Biggest organizational problem , he adds , is setting up CDC units in rock-ribbed Democratic territory .
Paradoxically the council is weakest in areas that register 4- and 5-to-1 in the party's favor , strongest where Democrats and Republicans compete on a fairly even basis .
Like most Democratic spokesmen , Carvey predicts 1962 will be a tremendously `` partisan year '' .
Hence the attention they're lavishing on the Aj .
In all probability , the council will screen and endorse candidates for the Assembly and for Congress , and then strive to put its full weight behind these pre-primary favorites .
This bodes heated contests in several districts where claims have already been staked out by Democratic hopefuls who don't see eye-to-eye with the Aj .
Naturally , the statewide races will provide the major test for the expanding council .
Shunted aside by the rampant organizers for John F. Kennedy last year , who relegated it to a somewhat subordinate role in the Presidential campaign , the CDC plainly intends to provide the party's campaign muscle in 1962 .
There is evidence that it will be happily received by Gov. Brown and the other constitutional incumbents .
Carvey considers that former Vice President Nixon would be Brown's most formidable foe , with ex-Gov. Knight a close second .
But the rest of the GOP gubernatorial aspirants don't worry him very much .
In his CDC work , Carvey has the close-in support and advice of one of California's shrewdest political strategists : former Democratic National Committeeman Paul Ziffren , who backed him over a Northland candidate espoused by Atty. Gen. Stanley Mosk .
( Significantly , bitter echoes of the 1960 power struggle that saw Mosk moving into the national committee post over Ziffren are still audible in party circles .
)
note : We've just received an announcement of the 54th Assembly district post-reapportionment organizing convention Wednesday night in South Pasadena's War Memorial Bldg. , which graphically illustrates the CDC's broad appeal .
State Sen. Dick Richards will keynote ; ;
state and county committeemen , CDC directors and representatives , members of 16 area clubs , and `` all residents '' have been invited .
This is going to be a language lesson , and you can master it in a few minutes .
It is a short course in Communese .
It works with English , Russian , German , Hungarian or almost any other foreign tongue .
Once you learn how to translate Communese , much of each day's deluge of news will become clearer .
At least , I have found it so .
For some compulsive reason which would have fascinated Dr. Freud , Communists of all shapes and sizes almost invariably impute to others the very motives which they harbor themselves .
They accuse their enemies of precisely the crimes of which they themselves are most guilty .
President Kennedy's latest warning to the Communist world that the United States will build up its military strength to meet any challenge in Berlin or elsewhere was , somewhat surprisingly , reported in full text or fairly accurate excerpts behind the Iron Curtain .
Then the Communese reply came back from many mouthpieces with striking consistency .
Now listen closely :
Moscow radio from the Literary Gazette in English to England :
`` President Kennedy once again interpreted the Soviet proposals , to sign a peace treaty with Germany as a threat , as part of the world menace allegedly looming over the countries of capitalism .
Evidently the war drum beating and hysteria so painstakingly being stirred up in the West have been planned long in advance .
The West Berlin crisis is being played up artificially because it is needed by the United States to justify its arms drive '' .
The Soviet news agency TASS datelined from New York in English to Europe :
`` President Kennedy's enlargement of the American military program was welcomed on Wall Street as a stimulus to the American munitions industry .
When the stock exchange opened this morning , many dealers were quick to purchase shares in Douglas , Lockheed and United Aircraft and prices rose substantially .
Over 4 million shares were sold , the highest figures since early June .
( Quotations follow '' .
)
TASS datelined Los Angeles , in English to Europe :
`` Former Vice President Nixon came out in support of President Kennedy's program for stepping up the arms race .
He also demanded that Kennedy take additional measures to increase international tension : specifically to crush the Cuban revolution , resume nuclear testing , resist more vigorously admission of China to its lawful seat in the United Nations , and postpone non-military programs at home '' .
TASS from Moscow in English to Europe :
`` The American press clamored for many days promising President Kennedy would reply to the most vital domestic and foreign problems confronting the United States .
In fact , the world heard nothing but sabre-rattling , the same exercises which proved futile for the predecessors of the current President .
If there were no West Berlin problem , imperialist quarters would have invented an excuse for stepping up the armaments race to try to solve the internal and external problems besetting the United States and its NATO partners .
Washington apparently decided to use an old formula , by injecting large military appropriations to speed the slow revival of the U.S. economy after a prolonged slump '' .
And now , for Communist listeners and readers :
Moscow Radio in Russian to the USSR :
`` The U.S. President has shown once again that the United States needs the fanning of the West Berlin crisis to justify the armaments race .
As was to be expected Kennedy's latest speech was greeted with enthusiasm by revenge-seeking circles in Bonn , where officials of the West German government praised it '' .
Moscow Novosti article in Russian , datelined London :
`` U.S. pressure on Britain to foster war hysteria over the status of West Berlin has reached its apogee .
British common sense is proverbial .
The present attempts of the politicians to contaminate ordinary Britons shows that this British common sense is unwilling to pull somebody else's chestnuts out of the fire by new military adventures '' .
East Berlin ( Communist ) radio in German to Germany :
`` A better position for negotiations is the real point of this speech .
Kennedy knows the West will not wage war for West Berlin , neither conventional nor nuclear , and negotiations will come as certainly as the peace treaty .
Whenever some Washington circles were really ready for talks to eliminate friction they have always succumbed to pressure from the war clique in the Pentagon and in Bonn .
In Kennedy's speech are cross currents , sensible ones and senseless ones , reflecting the great struggle of opinions between the President's advisers and the political and economic forces behind them .
Well , dear listeners , despite all the shouting , there will be no war over West Berlin '' .
Moscow TASS in Russian datelined Sochi :
`` Chairman Khrushchev received the U.S. President's disarmament adviser , John McCloy .
Their conversation and dinner passed in a warm and friendly atmosphere '' .
Now , to translate from the Communese , this means :
The `` West Berlin '' crisis is really an East Berlin crisis .
The crisis was artificially stirred up by the Kremlin ( Wall Street ) and the Red Army ( Pentagon ) egged on by the West Germans ( East Germans ) .
The reason was to speed up domestic production in the USSR , which Khrushchev promised upon grabbing power , and try to end the permanent recession in Russian living standards .
Chairman Khrushchev ( Kennedy ) rattles his rockets ( sabre ) in order to cure his internal ills and to strengthen his negotiating position .
His advisers in the Politburo ( White House ) are engaged in a great struggle of opinions , so he is not always consistent .
The Soviet Union will fight neither a conventional nor a nuclear war over Berlin , and neither will its Warsaw Pact allies .
The West has no intention of attacking Russia .
Chairman Khrushchev and John McCloy had a terrible row at Sochi .
See , Communese is easy -- once you get onto it .
Aug. 4 , 1821 , nearly a century after Benjamin Franklin founded the Pennsylvania Gazette -- a century during which it had undergone several changes in ownership and a few brief suspensions in publication -- this paper made its first appearance as the Saturday Evening Post .
The country was now full of Gazettes and Samuel C. Atkinson and Charles Alexander , who had just taken over Franklin's old paper , desired a more distinctive name .
When founded by Franklin the Gazette was a weekly family newspaper and under its new name its format remained that of a newspaper but its columns gradually contained more and more fiction , poetry , and literary essays .
In the middle of the century , with a circulation of 90,000 , the Post was one of the most popular weeklies in the country .
But during the second half of the century its fortunes reached a low point and when in 1897 Cyrus H. K. Curtis purchased it -- `` paper , type , and all '' -- for $1,000 it was a 16-page weekly filled with unsigned fiction and initialed miscellany , and with only some 2,000 subscribers .
Little more than a fine old name , valuable principally because of the Franklin tradition , the Saturday Evening Post was slow to revive .
But Curtis poured over $1 million into it and in time it again became one of the most popular weeklies of the country .
`` Remember the French railroad baron who was going to take me floating down the Nile '' ? ?
`` Remember the night Will Rogers filled a tooth for me between numbers '' ? ?
`` Sure , we met a barrel of rich men but it's hard to find the real thing when you're young , beautiful and the toast of two continents '' `` Remember Fanny Brice promised my mother she would look after me on the road '' ? ?
All this remembering took place the other night when I had supper with the Ziegfeld Girls at the Beverly Hills Club .
A quarter of a century has gone by since this bevy of walking dreams sashayed up and down the staircases of the old New Amsterdam Theater , N.Y. .
But watching Mrs. Cyril Ring , Berniece Dalton Janssen , Mrs. Robert Jarvis , Mrs. Walter Adams order low-calorie seafood , no bread , I could see the Ziegfeld Girls of 1920 were determined to be glamorous grandmothers of 1961 .
I was anxious to hear about those dazzling days on the Great White Way .
All I could remember was Billie Dove pasted over the ceiling of my big brother's room .
`` Billie was really beautiful '' ! !
Exclaimed Vera Forbes Adams , batting lovely big eyes behind glitter rimmed glasses .
Sing Sing's prisoner strike was motivated by a reasonable purpose , a fair break from parole boards .
But once the strike trend hits hoosegows , there is no telling how far it may go .
Inmates might even demand the 34-hour week , all holidays off and fringe benefits including state contributions toward lawyers' fees .
Some day we might see a Federation of Prison and Jail Inmates , with a leader busily trying to organize reformatory occupants , defendants out on bail , convicts opposed to probation officers , etc. .
A three-day confinement week , with a month's vacation and shorter hours all around could be an ultimate demand from cell occupants of the nation , with fringe benefits including : 1 .
Wider space between iron bars and agreement by prison boards to substitute rubber in 20 per cent of metal .
2 .
An agreement allowing convicts to pass on type of locks used on prison doors .
In case of a deadlock between prison boards and inmates , a federal arbitration board to include a `` lifer '' and two escapees should decide the issue .
3 .
Specific broadening of travel rights .
4 .
The right to leave the hoosegow any time to see a lawyer instead of waiting for a lawyer to make a trip to the prison .
5 .
Recognition of Prisoners Union rule that no member of an iron or steel workers union be permitted to repair a sawed-off bar without approval and participation of representative of the cell occupant .
6 .
No warden or guard to touch lock , key or doorknob except when accompanied by a prisoners' committee with powers of veto .
7 .
State and federal approval of right to walk out at any time when so voted by 51 per cent of the prisoners .
The death of Harold A. Stevens , oldest of the Stevens brothers , famed operators of baseball , football and race track concessions , revived again the story of one of the greatest business successes in history .
Harold , with brothers Frank , Joe and William , took over at the death of their father , Harry M. Stevens , who put a few dollars into a baseball program , introduced the `` hot dog '' and paved the way for creation of a catering empire .
Family loyalties and cooperative work have been unbroken for generations .
IBM has a machine that can understand spoken words and talk back .
Nevertheless , it will seem funny to have to send for a mechanic to improve conversation .
Rembrandt's `` Aristotle Contemplating Bust of Homer '' brought $2,300,000 at auction the other night .
Both Aristotle and Homer may in spirit be contemplating `` bust '' of the old-fashioned American dollar .
The owner of the painting got it for $750,000 , sold it for $500,000 in a market crash , and bought it back for $590,000 .
Apologies are in order from anybody who said , `` Are you sure you're not making a mistake '' ? ?
`` Wagon Train '' is reported the No. 1 TV show .
After all , where else can the public see a wagon these days ? ?
Lucius Beebe's book , `` Mr. Pullman's Elegant Palace Car '' , fills us with nostalgia , recalling days when private cars and Pullmans were extra wonderful , with fine woodwork , craftsmanship in construction , deep carpets and durable upholstery .
Beebe tells of one private car that has gold plumbing .
Jay Gould kept a cow on one deluxer .
Washington
-- Rep. Frelinghuysen , R-5th Dist. , had a special reason for attending the reception at the Korean Embassy for Gen. Chung Hee Park , the new leader of South Korea .
Not only is Mr. Frelinghuysen a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee , but he is the grandson of the man who was instrumental in opening relations between the United States and Korea , Frederick T. Frelinghuysen , Secretary of State in the administration of Chester A. Arthur .
In addition Rep. Frelinghuysen's brother Harry was on the Korean desk of the State Department in World War 2 .
Next year is the 80th anniversary of the signing of the treaty between Korea and the United States and experts in Seoul are trying to find the correspondence between Frederick Frelinghuysen , who was Secretary of State in 1883 and 1884 , and Gen. Lucius Foote , who was the first minister to Korea .
They enlisted the help of the New Jersey congressman , who has been able to trace the letters to the national archives , where they are available on microfilm .
On the job
A top official of the New Frontier who kept a record of his first weeks on the job here gives this report of his experiences :
In his first six weeks in office he presided over 96 conferences , attended 35 official breakfasts and dinners , studied and signed 285 official papers and personally took 312 telephone calls .
In addition , he said , he has answered more than 400 messages of congratulations which led him to the comment that he himself had decided he wouldn't send another congratulatory message for the rest of his life .
Sen. Case Aj , has received a nice `` thank you '' note from a youngster he appointed to the Air Force Academy in Colorado .
Air Force life is great , the cadet wrote , `` though the fourth-class system is no fun '' .
He invited Mr. Case to stop by to say hello if he ever visited the academy and then added that he was on the managerial staff of the freshman football team
`` We have just returned from Roswell , N.M. , where we were defeated , 34 to 9 '' , the young man noted .
`` We have a tremendous amount of talent -- but we lack cohesion '' .
Kind Mr. Sam
Among the many stories about the late Speaker Rayburn is one from Rep. Dwyer , R-6th Dist. .
Mrs. Dwyer's husband , M. Joseph Dwyer , was taking a 10-year-old boy from Union County on the tour of the Capitol during the final weeks of the last session .
They ran across Mr. Rayburn and the youngster expressed a desire to get the Speaker's autograph .
Mr. Dwyer said that although it was obvious that Mr. Rayburn was not well he stopped , gave the youngster his autograph , asked where he was from and expressed the hope that he would enjoy his visit to Congress .
Two days later Mr. Rayburn left Washington for the last time .
The 350th anniversary of the King James Bible is being celebrated simultaneously with the publishing today of the New Testament , the first part of the New English Bible , undertaken as a new translation of the Scriptures into contemporary English .
Since it was issued in the spring of 1611 , the King James Version has been most generally considered the most poetic and beautiful of all translations of the Bible .
However , Biblical scholars frequently attested to its numerous inaccuracies , as old manuscripts were uncovered and scholarship advanced .
This resulted in revisions of the King James Bible in 1881-85 as the English Revised Version and in 1901 as the American Standard Version .
Then in 1937 America's International Council of Religious Education authorized a new revision , in the light of expanded knowledge of ancient manuscripts and languages .
Undertaken by 32 American scholars , under the chairmanship of Rev. Dr. Luther A. Weigle , former dean of Yale University Divinity School , their studies resulted in the publishing of the Revised Standard Version , 1946-52 .
Not rival
The New English Bible ( the Old Testament and Apocrypha will be published at a future date ) has not been planned to rival or replace the King James Version , but , as its cover states , it is offered `` simply as the Bible to all those who will use it in reading , teaching , or worship '' .
Time , of course will testify whether the new version will have achieved its purpose .
Bible reading , even more so than good classical music , grows in depth and meaning upon repetition .
If this new Bible does not increase in significance by repeated readings throughout the years , it will not survive the ages as has the King James Version .
However , an initial perusal and comparison of some of the famous passages with the same parts of other versions seems to speak well of the efforts of the British Biblical scholars .
One is impressed with the dignity , clarity and beauty of this new translation into contemporary English , and there is no doubt that the meaning of the Bible is more easily understandable to the general reader in contemporary language in the frequently archaic words and phrases of the King James .
For example , in the third chapter of Matthew , verses 13-16 , describing the baptism of Jesus , the 1611 version reads :
`` Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan unto John , to be baptized of him .
`` But John forbad him , saying , I have need to be baptized of thee , and comest thou to me ? ?
`` And Jesus answering said unto him , Suffer it to be so now : for thus it becometh us to fulfill all righteousness .
Then he suffered him .
`` And Jesus , when he was baptized went up straightway out of the water : and lo , the heavens were opened unto him , and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove , and lighting upon him '' .
Clearer meaning
Certainly , the meaning is clearer to one who is not familiar with Biblical teachings , in the New English Bible which reads : `` Then Jesus arrived at Jordan from Galilee , and he came to John to be baptized by him .
John tried to dissuade him .
' Do you come to me ' ? ?
He said ; ;
' I need rather to be baptized by you .
Jesus replied , ' let it be so for the present ; ;
we do well to conform this way with all that God requires .
John then allowed him to come .
After baptism Jesus came up out of the water at once , and at that moment heaven opened ; ;
he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove to alight upon him '' ; ;
( the paragraphing , spelling and punctuation are reproduced as printed in each version .
)
Among the most frequently quoted Biblical sentences are the Beatitudes and yet so few persons , other than scholars , really understand the true meaning of these eight blessings uttered by Jesus at the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount .
To illustrate , the first blessing in the King James Bible reads : `` Blessed are the poor in spirit ; ;
for their's is the kingdom of heaven '' .
The new version states : `` How blest are those who know that they are poor ; ;
the kingdom of Heaven is theirs '' .
Some of the poetic cadence of the older version certainly is lost in the newer one , but almost anyone , with a fair knowledge of the English language , can understand the meaning , without the necessity of interpretation by a Biblical scholar .
To a novice that is significant .
In the second and third chapters of Revelation the new version retains , however , the old phrase `` angel of the church '' which Biblical scholars have previously interpreted as meaning bishop .
This is not contemporary English .
Mostly contemporary
For the most part , however , the new version is contemporary and , as such , should be the means for many to attain a clearer comprehension of the meaning of those words recorded so many hundreds of years ago by the first followers of Christ .
Originally recorded by hand , these words have been copied and recopied , translated and retranslated through the ages .
Discoveries recently made of old Biblical manuscripts in Hebrew and Greek and other ancient writings , some by the early church fathers , in themselves called for a restudy of the Bible .
To have the results recorded in everyday usable English should be of benefit to all who seek the truth .
There is one danger , however .
With contemporary English changing with the rapidity that marks this jet age , some of the words and phrases of the new version may themselves soon become archaic .
The only answer will be continuous study .
The New Testament offered to the public today is the first result of the work of a joint committee made up of representatives of the Church of England , Church of Scotland , Methodist Church , Congregational Union , Baptist Union , Presbyterian Church of England , Churches in Wales , Churches in Ireland , Society of Friends , British and Foreign Bible Society and National Society of Scotland .
Prof. C. H. Dodd , 76 , a Congregational minister and a leading authority on the New Testament , is general director of the project and chairman of the New Testament panel .
Sizzling temperatures and hot summer pavements are anything but kind to the feet .
That is why it is important to invest in comfortable , airy types of shoes .
There are many soft and light shoe leathers available .
Many styles have perforations and an almost weightlessness achieved via unlined leathers .
Softness is found in crushed textures .
Styles run the gamut from slender and tapered with elongated toes to a newer squared toe shape .
Heels place emphasis on the long legged silhouette .
Wine glass heels are to be found in both high and semi-heights .
Stacked heels are also popular on dressy or tailored shoes .
Just the barest suggestion of a heel is found on teenage pumps .
Coolest shade
While white is the coolest summer shade , there are lots of pastel hues along with tintable fabrics that will blend with any wardrobe color .
In the tintable group are high and little heels , squared and oval throats , and shantung-like textures .
Don't overlook the straws this year .
They come in crisp basket weaves in natural honey hues , along with lacey open weaves with a lustre finish in natural , white , black and a whole range of colors .
In the casual field straws feature wedge heels of cork or carved wood in a variety of styles .
For added comfort some of the Italian designed sandals have foam padded cushioning .
The citrus tones popular in clothing are also to be found afoot .
Orange and lemon are considered important as are such pastels as blue and lilac .
In a brighter nautical vein is Ille De France blue .
Contrast trim provides other touches of color .
Spectators in white crush textures dip toe and heel in smooth black , navy and taffy tan .
Designed for ease
Designed for summer comfort are the shoes illustrated .
At the left is a pair of dressy straw pumps in a light , but crisp texture .
In a lacey open weave shoes have a luster finish , braided collar and bow highlight on the squared throat .
At right is a casual style in a crushed unlined white leather .
Flats have a scalloped throat .
An electric toothbrush ( Broxodent ) may soon take its place next to the electric razor in the American bathroom .
The brush moves up and down and is small enough to clean every dental surface , including the back of the teeth .
In addition , the motor has the seal of approval of the Underwriters Laboratories , which means it is safe .
The unit consists of a small motor that goes on as soon as it is plugged in .
The speed is controlled by pressing on the two brake buttons located where the index finger and thumb are placed when holding the motor .
The brushes can be cleaned and sterilized by boiling and are detachable so that every member of the family can have his own .
Most of us brush our teeth by hand .
The same can be said of shaving yet the electric razor has proved useful to many men .
The electric toothbrush moves in a vertical direction , the way dentists recommend .
In addition , it is small enough to get into crevices , jacket and crown margins , malposed anteriors , and the back teeth .
The bristles are soft enough to massage the gums and not scratch the enamel .
It is conceivable that Broxodent could do a better job than ordinary brushing , especially in those who do not brush their teeth properly .
Several dentists and patients with special dental problems have experimented with the device .
The results were good although they are difficult to compare with hand brushing , particularly when the individual knows how to brush his teeth properly .
The electric gadget is most helpful when there are many crowned teeth and in individuals who are elderly , bedfast with a chronic disease , or are handicapped by disorders such as cerebral palsy or muscular dystrophy .
But for many of us , it will prove an enjoyable luxury .
It is not as convenient as the old type toothbrush and the paste tends to shimmy off the bristles .
Since the apparatus is new , it requires experimentation and changes in technique .
Turn over
writes : Does numbness in the left hand at night , which awakens the person , indicate brain tumor ? ?
Reply :
no .
This is a common symptom and the cause usually is pressure on the nerve leading to the affected hand .
The pressure may come from muscles , tendons , or bones anywhere from the neck to the hand .
Steam baths
writes : Do steam baths have any health value ? ?
Reply :
No , other than cleaning out the pores and making the sweat glands work harder .
An ordinary hot bath or shower will do the same .
Sewing brings numbness
writes : What makes my hands numb when sewing ? ?
Reply :
There are many possibilities , including poor circulation , a variety of neurological conditions , and functional disorders .
This manifestation may be an early sign of multiple sclerosis or the beginning of sewer's cramp .
Brace for sciatica
writes : Does a brace help in sciatica ? ?
Reply :
A back brace might help , depending upon the cause of sciatica .
Cholesterol and thyroid
writes : Does the cholesterol go down when most of the thyroid gland is removed ? ?
Reply :
no .
It usually goes up .
The cholesterol level in the blood is influenced by the glands of the body .
It is low when the thyroid is overactive and high when the gland is sluggish .
The latter is likely to occur when the thyroid is removed .
The gap between the bookshelf and the record cabinet grows smaller with each new recording catalogue .
There's more reading and instruction to be heard on discs than ever before , although the spoken rather than the sung word is as old as Thomas Alva Edison's first experiment in recorded sound .
Edison could hardly have guessed , however , that Sophocles would one day appear in stereo .
If the record buyer's tastes are somewhat eclectic or even the slightest bit esoteric , he will find them satisfied on educational records .
And he will avoid eye-strain in the process .
Everything from poetry to phonetics , history to histrionics , philosophy to party games has been adapted to the turntable .
For sheer ambition , take the Decca series titled modestly `` Wisdom '' .
Volumes One and Two , selected from the sound tracks of a television series , contain `` conversations with the elder wise men of our day '' .
These sages include poet Carl Sandburg , statesman Jawaharlal Nehru and sculptor Jacques Lipchitz , in Volume One , and playwright Sean O'Casey , David Ben-Gurion , philosopher Bertrand Russell and the late Frank Lloyd Wright in the second set .
Hugh Downs is heard interviewing Wright , for an added prestige fillip .
There's more specialization and a narrower purpose in two albums recently issued by Dover Publications .
Dover `` publishes '' what the company calls `` Listen And Learn '' Productions designed to teach foreign languages .
Previous presentations have been on French , Spanish , Russian , Italian , German and Japanese .
But the firm has recognized the tight dollar and the tourist's desire to visit the `` smaller , less-traveled and relatively inexpensive countries '' , and is now prepared to teach modern Greek and Portuguese through recordings .
The respective vocabularies `` essential for travel '' are available in separate albums .
Thanks to Spoken Arts Records , history buffs may hear Lincoln's `` most memorable speeches and letters '' in a two-disc set , interpreted by Lincoln authority and lecturer Roy P. Basler .
As a contemporary bonus , the set includes Carl Sandburg's address at a joint session of Congress , delivered on Lincoln's birthday two years ago .
For those who `` like poetry but never get around to reading it '' , the Library of Congress makes it possible for poets to be heard reading their own work .
The program was instituted in 1940 , and releases are available only from the Recording Laboratory of the Library of Congress , Washington 25 , D.C. .
A catalogue is available on request .
Newest on the list are John Ciardi , W. D. Snodgrass , I. A. Richards , Oscar Williams , Robert Hillyer , John Hall Wheelock , Stephen Vincent Benet , Edwin Muir , John Peal Bishop and Maxwell Bodenheim .
Two poets are paired on each record , in the order given above .
Decca is not the only large commercial company to impart instruction .
RCA Victor has an ambitious and useful project in a stereo series called `` Adventures In Music '' , which is an instructional record library for elementary schools .
Howard Mitchell and the National Symphony perform in the first two releases , designed for grades one and two .
Teaching guides are included with each record .
In an effort to fortify himself against the unforseen upsets sure to arise in the future , Herbert A. Leggett , banker-editor of the Phoenix `` Arizona Progress '' , reflects upon a few of the depressing experiences of the feverish fifties .
One of the roughest was the TV quiz shows , which gave him inferiority complexes .
Though it was a great relief when the big brains on these shows turned out to be frauds and phonies , it did irreparable damage to the ego of the editor and many another intelligent , well-informed American .
But the one that upset the financially wise was the professional dancer who related in a book how he parlayed his earnings into a $2,000,000 profit on the stock market .
Every man who dabbles in the market to make a little easy money on the side and suffers losses could at the time hardly face his wife who was wondering how her husband could be so dumb .
Investors breathed more freely when it was learned that this acrobatic dancer had turned magician and was only doing a best seller book to make some dough .
People who take us for suckers are like the Westerner who had on exhibit his superior marksmanship in the form of a number of bull's-eye achievements .
The promoter who wanted to sign him up for the circus asked him how he was able to do it .
His answer was simple but honest .
He just shot at the board and then drew circles around the holes to form a bull's-eye .
One of the obstacles to the easy control of a 2-year-old child is a lack of verbal communication .
The child understands no .
He senses his mother's disapproval .
But explanations leave him confused and unmoved .
If his mother loves him , he clings to that love as a ballast .
It motivates his behavior .
He wants Mommy to think him a good boy .
He doesn't want her to look frowningly at him , or speak to him angrily .
This breaks his heart .
He wants to be called sweet , good , considerate and mother's little helper .
But even mother's loving attitude will not always prevent misbehavior .
His desires are so strong that he needs constant reassurance of his mother's love for him and what she expects of him , in order to overcome them .
His own inner voice , which should tell him what not to do , has not developed .
It won't develop until he has words with which to clothe it .
The conscience is non-existent in the 2-year-old .
What can a mother do then to prevent misbehavior ? ?
She can decrease the number of temptations .
She can remove all knick-knacks within reach .
The fewer nos she has to utter the more effective they will be .
She should offer substitutes for the temptations which seem overwhelmingly desirable to the child .
If he can't play with Mommy's magazines , he should have some old numbers of his own .
If Daddy's books are out of bounds his own picture books are not .
Toys he has can be made to act as substitutes for family temptations such as refrigerator and gas stove .
During this precarious period of development the mother should continue to influence the growth of the child's conscience .
She tells him of the consequences of his behavior .
If he bites a playmate she says , `` Danny won't like you '' .
If he snatches a toy , she says , `` Caroline wants her own truck just as you do '' .
There is no use trying to `` Explain '' to a 2-year-old .
Actions speak louder .
Remove temptations .
Remove the child from the scene of his misbehavior .
Substitute approved objects for forbidden ones and keep telling him how he is to act .
He won't submit to his natural desires all the time , and it's Mother's love that is responsible for his good behavior .
This is the period during the melancholy days of autumn when universities and colleges schedule what they call `` Homecoming Day '' .
They seek thereby to lure the old grad back to the old scenes .
The football opponent on homecoming is , of course , selected with the view that said opponent will have little more chance than did a Christian when thrown to one of the emperor's lions .
It is true , of course , the uncertainties of life being what they are , that as now and then the Christian killed the lion , homecoming days have been ruined by a visiting team .
Even with all possible precaution , homecomings are usually rather cruel and sad , and only the perpetually ebullient and the continually optimistic are made happy by them .
More often than not , as the Old Grad wanders along the old paths , his memory of happy days when he strolled one of the paths with a coed beside him becomes an ache and a pain .
He can smell again the perfume she wore and recall the lilting sound of laughter , and can smell again the aroma of autumn -- fallen leaves , the wine of cool air , and the nostalgia of woodsmoke which blows through all the winds of fall .
Undergraduates
It is at precisely such moments that he encounters a couple of undergraduates , faces alight , holding hands and talking happily as they come along , oblivious of him , or throwing him the most fleeting and casual of glances , such as they would give a tethered goat .
Usually , they titter loudly after they have passed by .
His dream goes .
He feels , suddenly , the weight of the fat that is on him .
His bridgework or his plates feel loose and monstrous .
His bifocals blur .
His legs suddenly feel heavy and unaccountably weary , as if he had walked for miles , instead of strolling a few hundred yards along the old campus paths .
Bitterness comes over him and the taste of time is like unripe persimmons in his mouth .
It is not much better if he meets with old classmates .
Too often , unless he hails them , they pass him by .
He recalls with a wry smile the wit who said , on returning from a homecoming reunion , that he would never go again because all his class had changed so much they didn't even recognize him .
If they do meet and recognize one another , slap backs and embrace , the moment soon is done .
After all , when one has asked whatever became of old Joe and Charlie when one has inquired who it was Sue Brown married and where it is they now live when questions are asked and answered about families and children , and old professors when the game and its probable outcome has been exhausted that does it .
Middle-aged spread
By then one begins to notice the middle-age spread ; ;
the gray hairs , the eyeglasses , bodies that are too thin or too heavy ; ;
the fading signs of old beauty ; ;
the athlete of by-gone years who wears a size 46 suit and puffs when he has finished a sentence of any length then , it is time to break it up and move on .
It is , if anything , worse on the old player
He sits in the stands and he doesn't like that .
Enough of his life was spent there on the field for him never to like watching the game as a spectator in the crowd .
He always feels lonely .
A team feels something .
On a team a man feels he is a part of it and akin to the men next to him .
In the stands he is lonely and lost , no matter how many are about him .
He sits there remembering the tense moment before the ball was snapped ; ;
the churning of straining feet , the rasp of the canvas pants ; ;
the smell and feel of hot , wet woolen sleeves across his face .
He remembers the desperate , panting breath ; ;
the long runs on the kick-offs ; ;
the hard , jolting tackles ; ;
the breakthrough ; ;
the desperate agony of goal-line stands .
And so , he squirms with each play , remembering his youth .
But it is no use .
It is gone .
No matter how often a man goes back to the scenes of his youth and strength , they can never be recaptured again .
Since the obvious is not always true , the Republican National Committee wisely analyzed its defeat of last autumn and finds that it occurred , as suspected , in the larger cities .
Of 40 cities with populations of 300,000 and more , Mr. Kennedy carried 26 and Mr. Nixon 14 .
There are eight states in which the largest urban vote can be the balance of power in any close election .
These are New York , Pennsylvania , Michigan , Maryland , Missouri , New Jersey , Illinois and Minnesota .
In 1952 Mr. Eisenhower won all but Missouri .
Yet , in 1960 all eight gave majorities to Mr. Kennedy .
Republican research broke down the vote in Philadelphia .
Mr. Nixon , despite a very earnest effort to capture the minority groups , failed to do so .
His visit to Warsaw , Poland , after the Russian journey in the summer of 1959 was expected to win the Polish vote which , in several cities , is substantial .
Yet , the GOP breakdown discovered that in Philadelphia Mr. Nixon received but 21 per cent of the so-called `` Polish '' vote ; ;
30 per cent of the `` Irish '' vote , and 18 per cent of the `` Negro '' vote .
' task force '
A GOP `` task force ' committee will seek to find out how its party may win support from the ethnic and minority groups in cities .
The task force might make a start in Washington with Republican congressional leaders .
These gentlemen already have done the party harm by their seeming reluctance to vote aid for the depressed areas and by their criticism of Mr. Kennedy for talking about a recession and unemployment .
This error was compounded by declaring the recession to be `` a statistical one '' , and not a reality .
The almost six million persons without jobs and the two million working part-time do not consider themselves and their plight as statistical .
They did not view the tour of the distressed cities and towns by Secretary of Labor Goldberg as politics , which the GOP declared it to be .
The people visited were glad to have a government with heart enough to take an interest in their misery .
Senator Mundt's gross distortion of President Eisenhower's conversation into a denunciation of President Kennedy as too left wing , a statement Mr. Eisenhower declared to be entirely false , is another case in point .
If the Republicans and Southern Democrats join to defeat medical care for the old under the Social Security program , they will thereby erect still another barrier to GOP hopes in the cities .
Errors repeated
The present Republican leadership as practiced by Mundt , Goldwater , Bridges , Dirksen , et al , is repeating the errors of the party leadership of the 1930s .
In that decade the partisan zeal to defend Mr. Hoover , and the party's failure to anticipate or cope with the depression , caused a great majority of Americans to see the Republican party as cold and lacking in any sympathy for the problems of human beings caught up in the distress and suffering brought on by the economic crash .
The Republican party was not lacking in humanity , but it permitted its extremely partisan leadership to make it appear devoid of any consideration for people in trouble .
Farmers called their mule-drawn pickup trucks `` Hoover carts '' .
Smokers reduced to `` the makings '' , spoke of the sack tobacco as `` Hoover dust '' .
One may be sure the present Republican congressional leadership hasn't meant to repeat this error .
But it is in the process of so doing because it apparently gives priority to trying to downgrade John F. Kennedy .
That this is not good politics is underscored by the latest poll figures which show that 72 per cent of the people like the way in which the new President is conducting the nation's business .
The most articulate Republicans are those who , in their desire to get back at Mr. Kennedy , already have created the image of a Republican leadership which is reluctant to assist the distressed and the unemployed , and which is even more unwilling to help old people who need medical care .
If they also defeat the school bill , the GOP task force won't have much research to do .
It will early know why the party won't win back city votes .
The 1962 General Assembly has important business to consider .
The tragedy is that it will not be able to transact that business in any responsible manner .
After the Griffin-Byrd political troup has completed the circuit in November in the name of a Pre-Legislative Forum , this is going to be the most politically oriented Legislature in history .
Every legislator from Brasstown Bald to Folkston is going to have his every vote subjected to the closest scrutiny as a test of his political allegiances , not his convictions .
Hoped-for legislative action on adjustment of the county unit system stands less chance than ever .
And just how far can the Legislature go toward setting up a self-insurance system for the state in the midst of a governor's race '' ? ?
How unpartisan will be the recommendations of Lt. Gov. Garland Byrd's Senate Committee on Government Operations ? ?
The situation already was bad because the Legislature moved the governor's race forward a few months , causing the campaigning to get started earlier than usual .
But when former Gov. Marvin Griffin and Lt. Gov. Byrd accepted the invitations of the Georgia State Chamber of Commerce to join the tour next November , the situation was aggravated .
Neither had a choice other than to accept the invitation .
To have refused would have been political suicide .
And it may be that one or both men actually welcomed the opportunity , when the bravado comments are cast aside .
The Georgia State Chamber of Commerce tried to guard against the danger of eliminating potential candidates .
It wanted the State Democratic Executive Committee to pick the `` serious candidates '' .
But State Party Chairman James Gray of Albany said no , and he didn't mince any words .
`` They are just asking too much '' , he said .
We can't think of anyone else who would want to separate serious candidates from other candidates , either .
There are other dangers :
Politics is an accelerating game .
`` If an opponent accuses you of lying , don't deny it .
Say he is a horse thief '' , runs an old adage .
These men are spenders .
If either one ever started making promises , there is no telling where the promises would end .
Griffin's Rural Roads Authority and Byrd's 60,000 miles of county contracts would look like pauper's oaths .
The trouble is that at first glance the idea looks like such a good one .
Why not have them travel the state in November debating ? ?
It would present a forum for them in almost every community .
But further thought brings the shuddery visions of a governor's race being run in the next Legislature , the spectre of big spending programs , the ooze of mudslinging before the campaign should even begin .
There is a way out of this .
The Chamber has not arranged a pre-legislative forum .
It has arranged a campaign for governor .
If it will simply delay the debates until the qualifications are closed next spring , and then carry all the candidates on a tour of debates , it can provide a service to the state .
But the Legislature should be granted the opportunity to complete its work before choosing up sides for the race .
Former British Prime Minister Attlee says Eisenhower was not a `` great soldier '' .
Ike's somewhat like George Washington .
Both won a pretty fair-sized war with a modest assist from British strategy .
Congressmen returning from recess say the people admire President Kennedy so much , they're even willing to heed his call to sacrifice -- and give up his program .
Slogan of the John Birch Society : `` Paddle your own canoe .
The guy who makes the motor boats may be a Communist '' .
A Republican survey says Kennedy won the '60 election on the religious issue .
Too many people were afraid if the GOP won , they'd have to spend all their time praying .
The Providence Journal editorial ( Jan. 25 ) entitled `` East Greenwich Faces A Housing Development Problem '' points to a dilemma that faces communities such as ours .
Your suggested solution , it seems to me , is grossly oversimplified and is inconsistent with your generally realistic attitude toward , and endorsement of , sound planning .
First of all there is ample area in East Greenwich already zoned in the classification similar to that which petitioner requested .
This land is in various stages of development in several locations throughout the town .
The demand for these lots can be met for some time to come .
This would seem to indicate that we are trying neither `` to halt an influx of migrants '' nor are we `` setting up such standards for development that only the well-to-do could afford to buy land and build in the new sites '' .
What we are attempting to do is achieve and maintain a balance between medium density and low density residential areas and industrial and commercial development .
It is in fact entirely consistent with your suggestion of modest industrial development to help pay governmental costs .
Bostitch , Inc. is approximately half way through a 10-year exemption of their real estate tax .
The wisdom of granting such tax exemptions is another matter , but this particular instance is , in my opinion , completely satisfactory .
The 1960 tax book for East Greenwich indicates a valuation for this property in excess of two million dollars .
With our current $3 per hundred tax rate , it is safe to assume that this will qualify when you suggest a community should `` try to develop a modest industrial plant '' as the best way to meet these problems .
In order to attract additional industry that is compatible with this community it is all the more important to present to the industrial prospect an orderly balance in the tax structure .
As this tax base grows so then can your medium and low density residential areas grow .
Mr. Richard Preston , executive director of the New Hampshire State Planning and Development Commission , in his remarks to the Governors Conference on Industrial Development at Providence on October 8 , 1960 , warned against the fallacy of attempting to attract industry solely to reduce the tax rate or to underwrite municipal services such as schools when he said : `` If this is the fundamental reason for a community's interest or if this is the basic approach , success if any will be difficult to obtain '' .
He went on to say : `` In the first place , industry per se is not dedicated to the role of savior of foundering municipalities .
It is not in business for the purpose of absorbing increased municipal costs no matter how high a purpose that may be '' .
While Councilman Olson cited the anticipated increase in school costs in answer to a direct question from a taxpayer , the impact upon a school system does not have to be measured only in increased taxes to find alarm in uncontrolled growth .
We in East Greenwich have the example of two neighboring communities , one currently utilizing double sessions in their schools , and the other facing this prospect next year .
It has already been reported in your newspapers that the East Greenwich School Committee is considering additions to at least one elementary school and to the high school to insure future accommodations for a school population that we know will increase .
If they are to be commended for foresight in their planning , what then is the judgment of a town council that compounds this problem during the planning stage ? ?
Where then is the sound planning and cooperation between agencies within the community that you have called for in other editorials ? ?
I submit that it cannot be dismissed simply by saying we are not facing the facts of life .
The `` fruitful course '' of metropolitanization that you recommend is currently practiced by the town of East Greenwich and had its inception long before we learned what it was called .
For example : 1 .
The East Greenwich Police Department utilizes the radio transmission facilities of the Warwick Police Department , thereby eliminating duplication of facilities and ensuring police coordination in the Cowessett-East Greenwich-Potowomut area of the two communities .
2 .
The East Greenwich Fire District services parts of Warwick as well as East Greenwich .
3 .
The taxpayers of East Greenwich appropriate sums of money , as do other Kent County communities , for the support of the Kent County Memorial Hospital , a regional facility .
4 .
The East Greenwich Free Library receives financial support from the town of East Greenwich and the City of Warwick to supplement its endowment .
5 .
Feelers were put out last year to the City of Warwick , as reported in your newspapers , suggesting investigation of a common rubbish disposal area to service the Potowomut and Cowessett areas of Warwick along with East Greenwich .
6 .
East Greenwich was one of the first Rhode Island towns to enter into contract agreement with the Rhode Island Development Council for planning services we could not provide for ourselves .
7 .
The education program for retarded children conducted by the East Greenwich school system has pupils from at least one neighboring community .
I feel compelled to write this because I am greatly concerned with the problem of community growth rate and the relation between types of growth in a town such as East Greenwich .
I believe it is an area in which professional planners have failed to set adequate guide posts ; ;
and yet they cannot ignore this problem because it concerns the implementation of nearly all the planning programs they have devised .
These programs are volumes of waste paper and lost hours if the citizens of a community must stand aside while land developers tell them when , where , and in what manner the community shall grow .
We have far less to fear in the migrant family than we have in the migrant developer under these conditions .
Until professional planners meet this situation squarely and update the concepts of zoning in a manner acceptable to the courts , I hope we in East Greenwich can continue to shape our own destiny .
I would like very much , on behalf of my husband and myself , to send our eternal thanks to all the wonderful people responsible for the Gabrielle Fund .
It is indeed true , as stated in the famous novel of our day , `` For Whom The Bell Tolls '' , that `` no man is an island , entirely of itself ; ;
every man is a piece of the continent , a part of the main '' .
Thanks to the generosity of Mr. Irving J. Fain , president of the Temple Beth El ; ;
Rev. DeWitt Clemens , pastor of the Mathewson Street Methodist Church ; ;
Mr. Felix Miranda , of the Imperial Knife Co. ; ;
and to Mrs. Rozella Switzer , regional director of The National Conference of Christians and Jews , who asked them to serve as a committee for the fund .
It is through them that we have become aware of the divine humanity in man , and therefore , that most people are noble , helpful and good .
Bless you my friends , for it is through love and service that brotherhood becomes a reality .
I am a sophomore at Mount Pleasant High School .
My future plans are to become a language teacher .
Of course , having this desire , I am very interested in education .
A few weeks ago , I read in the Bulletin that there were to be given Chinese classes in Cranston .
The article also said that a person had to be 18 years old or over , and must not be going to high school to attend these classes .
The following week , I read in the Sunday paper that the students of Russia begin European and Asian languages in the seventh grade .
I wish you could see the situation as I see it .
If Russian pupils have to take these languages , how come American students have a choice whether or not to take a language , but have to face so many exceptions ? ?
I do not think that America is like Russia , not in the least ! !
I am proud of my country , the small city I live in , my wonderful parents , my friends and my school ; ;
but I am also a young , able and willing girl who wants to study the Chinese language but is not old enough .
Then people wonder why Russian pupils are more advanced than American students .
Well , there lies your answer .
At the height of the first snowstorm we had , it was impossible for me to get medical attention needed during an emergency .
However , the East Providence Rescue Squad made its way through to my home in time of desperation .
Words cannot tell of the undivided attention and comfort their service gave to me .
The concern they felt for me was such as I shall never forget and for which I will always be grateful .
The rescue squad is to be praised immensely for the fine work they do in all kinds of weather .
Had they not gotten me to the hospital when they did , perhaps I would not be here to commend them at this time .
Many thanks for a job well done .
The Providence Sunday Journal article ( Jan. 29 ) asking whether American taxpayers are being victimized by a gigantic giveaway to pay for the care of war veterans who have non-service-connected disabilities sounds as though The Providence Journal is desperate for news .
Usually a veteran has to hang himself to get space on the front page .
On the question of admission to Veterans Administration hospitals of service-connected and non-service-connected disabled veterans , it must be recognized that there are many men who are greatly affected by war service .
It can manifest itself before discharge from service , or it can come out years later .
There is one other point we should never lose sight of : Many veterans who enter VA hospitals as non-service cases later qualify as service-connected .
No psychiatrist could tell me that the experience in a war can not have its effect in the ensuing years .
The arguments advanced by those individuals and groups who oppose the system in force and who would drastically curtail or do away entirely with hospital care for the non-service-connected case , seem to be coldly impractical and out-of-step with the wishes of the general public .
I believe in priority for service-connected disabled veterans in admission to VA hospitals .
But I don't believe we should close the door on non-service-connected patients .
This matter is of great importance , and the outcome may mean the difference between life or death , or at least serious injuries , for many veterans .
Some critics say that the length of stay in a hospital is too long .
There's a reason for this length of stay .
First of all , the admitting physician in the VA hospital gets the patient as a new patient .
He has no experience with this veteran's previous medical record .
If the doctor is conscientious , he wants to study the patient .
As a result , it takes a little longer than it would on the outside where the family physician knows about the patient .
Secondly , the VA physician knows that when the patient leaves the hospital , he is no longer going to have a chance to visit his patient .
So he keeps the veteran in until he can observe the effects of treatment or surgery .
The American public must be presented with the facts concerning VA hospitalization .
The public should understand that whether they support a state hospital or a VA hospital , the tax dollar has to be paid one way or the other .
The responsibility is still going to be there whether they pay for a VA hospital or the tax dollar is spent for the state hospital .
An adequate system of VA hospitals is better equipped to care for the veterans than any 50 state hospitals .
It seems that open season upon veterans' hospitalization is once more upon us .
The American Medical Association is once again grinding out its tear-soaked propaganda based upon the high cost of the Veterans Administration medical program to the American taxpayer .
Do they , the A.M.A. , offer any solution other than outright abolition of a medical system unsurpassed anywhere in the world ? ?
We veterans acknowledge the fact that as time passes the demand for medical care at VA hospitals will grow proportionately as age fosters illness .
Nevertheless , we wonder at the stand of the A.M.A. on the health problem confronting the aged .
They opposed the Forand bill , which would have placed the major burden of financial support upon the individual himself through compulsory payroll deduction ; ;
yet they supported the Eisenhower administration which will cost a small state like ours approximately five million dollars ( matched incidentally by a federal grant ) to initiate .
`` A lousy job ''
Chicago , Aug. 9
-- No doubt there have been moments during every Presidency when the man in the White House has had feelings of frustration , exasperation , exhaustion , and even panic .
This we can sympathetically understand .
But no President ever before referred to his as a `` lousy job '' ( as Walter Trohan recently quoted President Kennedy as doing in conversation with Sen. Barry Goldwater ) .
During his aggressive campaign to win his present position , Mr. Kennedy was vitriolic about this country's `` prestige '' abroad .
What does he think a remark like this `` lousy '' one does to our prestige and morale ? ?
If the President of the United States really feels he won himself a `` lousy job '' , then heaven help us all .
Questions shelters
Evansville , Ind. , Aug. 5
-- Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara has asked Congress for authority and funds to build fallout shelters costing about 200 million dollars .
Why should Congress even consider allowing such a sum for that which can give no protection ? ?
Top scientists have warned that an area hit by an atomic missile of massive power would be engulfed in a suffocating fire storm which would persist for a long time .
The scientists have also warned that no life above ground or underground , sheltered or unsheltered could be expected to survive in an area at least 50 miles in diameter .
This sum spent for foreign economic aid , the peace corps , food for peace , or any other program to solve the problems of the underdeveloped countries would be an investment that would pay off in world peace , increased world trade , and prosperity for every country on the globe .
Let us prepare for peace , instead of for a war which would mean the end of civilization .
Short shorts on the campus
Chicago , Aug. 4
-- It seems college isn't what it should be .
I refer to the attire worn by the students .
Upon a visit to a local junior college last week , I was shocked to see the young ladies wearing short shorts and the young men wearing Bermuda shorts .
Is this what our children are to come face to face with when they are ready for college in a few years ? ?
Education should be uppermost in their minds , but with this attire how can anyone think it is so ? ?
It looks more like they are going to play at the beach instead of taking lessons on bettering themselves .
High school students have more sense of the way to dress than college students .
Many high school students go past my house every day , and they look like perfect ladies and gentlemen .
No matter how hot the day , they are dressed properly and not in shorts .
Masaryk award
Chicago , Aug. 9
-- The granting of the Jan Masaryk award August 13 to Senator Paul Douglas is a bitter example of misleading minorities .
Douglas has consistently voted to aid the people who killed Masaryk , and against principles Masaryk died to uphold .
Douglas has voted for aid to Communists and for the destruction of individual freedom ( public housing , foreign aid , etc. ) .
Subsidies from CTA
Oak Park , Aug. 8
-- In Today's `` Voice '' , the CTA is urged to reduce fares for senior citizens .
Rising costs have increased the difficulties of the elderly , and I would be the last to say they should not receive consideration .
But why is it the special responsibility of the CTA to help these people ? ?
Why should CTA regular riders subsidize reduced transportation for old people any more than the people who drive their own cars or walk to work should ? ?
The welfare of citizens , old and young , is the responsibility of the community , not only of that part of it that rides the Aj .
CTA regulars already subsidize transportation for school children , policemen , and firemen .
Marketing meat
Chicago , Aug. 9
-- In reply to a letter in Today's `` Voice '' urging the sale of meat after 6 p.m. , I wish to state the other side of the story .
I am the wife of the owner of a small , independent meat market .
My husband's hours away from home for the past years have been from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. the early part of the week , and as late as 8 or 9 on week-ends .
Now he is apparently expected to give up his evenings -- and Sundays , too , for this is coming .
There is a trend to packaging meat at a central source , freezing it , and shipping it to outlying stores , where meat cutters will not be required .
If a customer wishes a special cut , it will not be available .
We are slowly being regimented to having everything packaged , whether we want it or not .
Most women , in this age of freezers , shop for the entire week on week-ends , when prices are lower .
Also , many working wives have children or husbands who take over the shopping chores for them .
Independent market owners work six days a week ; ;
and my husband hasn't had a vacation in 14 years .
No , we are not greedy .
But if we closed the store for a vacation , we would lose our customers to the chain stores in the next block .
The meat cutters' union , which has a history of being one of the fairest and least corrupt in our area , represents the little corner markets as well as the large supermarkets .
What it is trying to do is to protect the little man , too , as well as trying to maintain a flow of fresh meat to all stores , with choice of cut being made by the consumer , not the store .
The Legion Convention and Sidney Holzman
Chicago , Aug. 9
-- I , too , congratulate the American Legion , of which I am proud to have been a member for more than 40 years , on the recent state convention .
I regret that Bertha Madeira ( Today's `` Voice '' ) obtained incorrect information .
Had I been granted the floor on a point of personal privilege , the matter she raised would have been clarified .
The resolution under discussion at the convention was to require the boards of election to instruct judges to properly display the American flag .
Judges under the jurisdiction of the Chicago board of election commissioners are instructed to do this .
The resolution further asked that polling place proprietors affix an attachment to their premises for the display of the flag .
It was my desire to advise the membership of the Legion that the majority of polling places are on private property and , without an amendment to the law , we could not enforce this .
My discussion with reference to the resolution was that we should commend those citizens who serve as judges of election and who properly discharge their duty and polling place proprietors who make available their private premises , and not by innuendo criticize them .
At no time did I attempt to seek approval or commendation for the members of the Chicago board of election commissioners for the discharge of their duties .
Teaching the handicapped
Chicago , Aug. 7
-- The Illinois Commission for Handicapped Children wishes to commend the recent announcement by the Catholic charities of the archdiocese of Chicago and DePaul University of the establishment of the Institute for Special Education at the university for the training of teachers for physically handicapped and mentally retarded children .
In these days of serious shortage of properly trained teachers qualified to teach physically handicapped and mentally handicapped children , the establishment of such an institute will be a major contribution to the field .
The Illinois Commission for Handicapped Children , which for 20 years has had the responsibility of coordinating the services of tax supported and voluntary organizations serving handicapped children , of studying the needs of handicapped children in Illinois , and of promoting more adequate services for them , indeed welcomes this new important resource which will help the people of Illinois toward the goal of providing an education for all of its children .
From Candlelight Club
Minneapolis , Aug. 7
-- I just want to let you know how much I enjoyed your June 25 article on Liberace , and to thank you for it .
Please do put more pictures and articles in about Liberace , as he is truly one of our greatest entertainers and a really wonderful person .
More school , less pay
Chicago , Aug. 7
-- Is this , perhaps , one of the things that is wrong with our country ? ?
Engineering graduates of Illinois Institute of Technology are reported receiving the highest average starting salaries in the school's history -- $550 a month .
My son , who has completed two years in engineering school , has a summer job on a construction project as an unskilled laborer .
At a rate of $3.22 an hour he is now earning approximately $580 a month .
Ironic , is it not , that after completing years of costly scientific training he will receive a cut in pay from what he is receiving as an ordinary unskilled laborer ? ?
The Dupont case
( Editorial comment on this letter appears elsewhere on this page ) .
Washington , Aug. 4
-- Your July 26 editorial regarding the position of Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy on prospective tax relief for DuPont stockholders is based on an erroneous statement of fact .
As a result , your criticism of Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy and the Department of Justice was inaccurate , unwarranted and unfair .
The editorial concerned legislative proposals to ease the tax burden on DuPont stockholders , in connection with the United States Supreme Court ruling that DuPont must divest itself of its extensive General Motors stock holdings .
These proposals would reduce the amount of tax that DuPont stockholders might have to pay -- from an estimated 1.1 billion dollars under present law to as little as 192 million dollars .
Congressman Wilbur D. Mills , chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee , asked the Department of Justice for its views on these legislative proposals as they related to anti-trust law enforcement .
The Attorney General responded by letter dated July 19 .
Copies of this letter were made avaliable to the press and public .
In this letter , Mr. Kennedy made it clear that he limited his comment only to one consideration -- what effect the legislative proposals might have on future anti-trust judgments .
There are a number of other considerations besides this one but it is for the Congress , not the Department of Justice , to balance these various considerations and make a judgment about legislation .
Yet your editorial said : `` Now the Attorney General writes that no considerations ' justify any loss of revenue of this proportion ' '' .
What Mr. Kennedy , in fact , wrote was : `` It is the Department's view that no anti-trust enforcement considerations justify any loss of revenue of this proportion '' .
The editorial , by omitting the words anti-trust enforcement , totally distorted Mr. Kennedy's views .
The headline is offensive , particularly in view of the total inaccuracy of the editorial .
Congresswoman Church
Wilmette , Aug. 7
-- I concur most heartily with today's letter on the futility of writing to Sen. Dirksen and Sen. Douglas .
But when you write to Congresswoman Church , bless her heart , your letter is answered fully and completely .
Should she disagree , she explains why in detail .
When she agrees , you can rest assured her position will remain unchanged .
I think we have the hardest working , best representative in Congress .
Harmful drinks
Downers Grove , Aug. 8
-- A recent news story reported that Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin delayed 103 airplane passengers 10 minutes in London while they finished their drinks .
They do our country great harm by such actions .
Those in the public eye should be good examples of American citizens while abroad .
The plane should have started at the scheduled time and left Sinatra and Martin to guzzle .
Toward socialism
Providence , Aug. 5
-- Overt socialism means government ownership and management of a nation's main industries .
In covert socialism -- toward which America is moving -- private enterprise retains the ownership title to industries but government thru direct intervention and excessive regulations actually controls them .
In order to attract new industries , 15 states or more are issuing tax free bonds to build government owned plants which are leased to private enterprise .
This is a step toward overt socialism .
Issuing bonds for plant construction has brought new industries to certain regions .
`` Workers of the party ''
to the editor :
Sir -- We are writing in reference to a recent `` suggestion '' made to the staff of the Public Health Nursing Service of Jersey City ( registered professional nurses with college background and varying experiences ) .
The day before Election Day , to which we are entitled as a legal holiday , we were informed to report to our respective polls to work as `` workers of the party '' .
Being ethical and professional people interested in community health and well-being , we felt this wasn't a function of our position .
Such tactics reek of totalitarianism ! !
As we understand , this directive was given to all city and county employes .
To our knowledge no nurse in our agency has been employed because of political affiliation .
We , therefore , considered the `` suggestion '' an insult to our intelligence , ethics , Bill of Rights , etc. .
Our only obligation for this day is to vote , free of persuasion , for the person we feel is capable in directing the public .
This is our duty -- not as nurses or city employes -- but as citizens of the United States .
`` Plus-one '' shelters
to the editor :
Sir -- I read of a man who felt he should not build a fallout shelter in his home because it would be selfish for him to sit secure while his neighbors had no shelters .
Does this man live in a neighborhood where all are free loaders unwilling to help themselves , but ready to demand that `` the community '' help and protect them ? ?
Community shelters are , of course , necessary for those having no space for shelter .
If in a town of 2,000 private homes , half of them have shelters , the need for the community shelters will be reduced to that extent .
In designing his home fallout shelter there is nothing to prevent a man from planning to shelter that home's occupants , `` plus-one '' -- so he will be able to take in a stranger .
I hope the man who plans to sit on his hands until the emergency comes will have a change of heart , will get busy and be the first member of our `` plus-one '' shelter club .
Escape
to the editor :
Sir -- People continue to inquire the reason for the race for outer space .
It's simple enough from my point of view .
I am for it .
It is the only method left for a man to escape from a woman's world .
Supports Katanga
to the editor :
Sir -- When the colonies decided upon freedom from England , we insisted , through the Declaration of Independence , that the nations of the world recognize us as a separate political entity .
It is high time the United States began to realize that the God-given rights of men set forth in that document are applicable today to Katanga .
In the United Nations Charter , the right of self-determination is also an essential principle .
This , again , applies to Katanga .
The people of Katanga had fought for , and obtained , their freedom from the Communist yoke of Antoine Gizenga , and his cohorts .
By political , economic , geographic and natural standards , they were justified in doing so .
The United States and the U.N. denounce their own principles when they defend the Communist oppressors and refuse to acknowledge the right of self-determination of the Katangans .
County college costs
to the editor :
Sir -- Permit me to commend your editorial in which you stress the fact that a program of county colleges will substantially increase local tax burdens and that taxpayers have a right to a clear idea of what such a program would commit them to .
The bill which passed the Assembly last May and is now pending in the Senate should be given careful scrutiny .
The procedure for determining the amounts of money to be spent by county colleges and raised by taxation will certainly startle many taxpayers .
Under the proposal the members of the board of trustees of a county college will be appointed ; ;
none will be elected .
The trustees will prepare an annual budget for the college and submit it to the board of school estimate .
This board will consist of two of the trustees of the college , and the director and two members of the board of freeholders .
It will determine the amount of money to be spent by the college and will certify this amount to the board of freeholders , which `` shall appropriate in the same manner as other appropriations are made by it the amount so certified and the amount shall be assessed , levied and collected in the same manner as moneys appropriated for other purposes '' .
The approval of only three members of the board of school estimate is required to certify the amount of money to be allotted to the college .
Since two of these could be trustees of the college , actually it would be necessary to have the consent of only one elected official to impose a levy of millions of dollars of tax revenue .
This is taxation without representation .
Taxing improvements
to the editor :
Sir -- Your editorial , `` Housing Speedup '' , is certainly not the answer to our slum problems .
The very rules and regulations in every city are the primary case of slum conditions .
Change our taxing law so that no tax shall be charged to any owner for additions or improvements to his properties .
Then see what a boom in all trades , as well as slum clearance at no cost to taxpayers , will happen .
Our entire economy will have a terrific uplift .
`` Natural causes ''
to the editor :
Sir -- An old man is kicked to death by muggers .
The medical examiner states that death was due to `` natural causes '' .
I once heard a comedian say that if you are killed by a taxicab in New York , it is listed as `` death due to natural causes '' .
Praises exhibit
to the editor :
Sir -- Every resident of this city should visit the Newark Museum and see the exhibit `` Our Changing Skyline in Newark '' .
It will be at the museum until March 30 .
It is a revelation of what has been done , what is being done and what will be done in Newark as shown by architects' plans , models and pictures .
It shows what a beautiful city Newark will become and certainly make every Newarker proud of this city .
It should also make him desire to participate actively in civic , school and religious life of the community so that that phase of Newark will live up to the challenge presented by this exhibit .
Parkway courtesy
to the editor :
Sir -- I hasten to join in praise of the men in the toll booths on the Garden State Parkway .
Recently I traveled the parkway from East Orange to Cape May and I found the most courteous group of men you will find anywhere .
One even gave my little dog a biscuit .
It was very refreshing .
`` Deep Peep Show ''
The viewers of the `` Deep Peep Show '' at 15th and M Streets NW have an added attraction -- the view of a fossilized cypress swamp .
Twenty feet below the street level in the excavation of the new motel to be constructed on this site , a black coal-like deposit has been encountered .
This is a black swamp clay in which about one hundred million years ago cypress-like trees were growing .
The fossilized remains of many of these trees are found embedded in the clay .
Some of the stumps are as much as three feet long , but most of them have been flattened by the pressure of the overlying sediments .
Although the wood has been changed to coal , much of it still retains its original cell structure .
In the clay are entombed millions of pollen grains and spores which came from plants growing in the region at the time .
These microfossils indicate the swamp was `` formed during the Lower Cretaceous period when dinosaurs were at their heyday and when the first flowering plants were just appearing .
The 15th Street deposit is not to be confused with the nearby famous Mayflower Hotel cypress swamp on 17th Street reported in The Washington Post , August 2 , 1955 , which was probably formed during the second interglacial period and is therefore much younger .
Working for peace
Recently the secretary of the Friends Committee on National Legislation was interviewed on the air .
While I respect his sincere concern for peace , he made four points that I would like to question .
1 .
He said , `` Let's work for peace instead of protection from aggression '' .
I would ask , `` Why not do both '' ? ?
Military power does not cause war ; ;
war is the result of mistrust and lack of understanding between people .
Are we not late , especially those of us who call ourselves Friends , in doing enough about this lack of understanding ? ?
2 .
As to protection , the speaker disapproved of shelters , pointing out that fallout shelters would not save everyone .
Is this a reason for saving no one ? ?
Would the man with an empty life boat row away from a shipwreck because his boat could not pick up everyone ? ?
3 .
The speaker suggested that the desolation of a post-attack world would be too awful to face .
If the world comes to this , wouldn't it be the very time when courage and American know-how would be needed to help survivors rebuild ? ?
Many of our young people think it would .
4 .
Lastly , the speaker decried our organized program of emergency help calling it `` Civilian Defense '' .
In 1950 , Public Law 920 created Civil Defense ( different from Civilian-groups of World War 2 ) , a responsibility of the Government at all levels to help reduce loss of life and property in disaster , natural or manmade .
Far from creating fear , as the speaker suggests , preparedness -- knowing what to do in an emergency -- gives people confidence .
Civil Defense has far to go and many problems to solve , but is it not in the best spirit of our pioneer tradition to be not only willing , but prepared to care for our own families and help our neighbors in any disaster -- storm , flood , accident or even war ? ?
Pets in apartments
It seems rather peculiar that residents of apartments are denied the right of providing themselves with the protection and companionship of dogs .
I feel that few burglars would be prone to break and enter into someone's apartment if they were met with a good hardy growl that a dog would provide .
In addition , would not the young female public of Washington be afforded a greater degree of protection at night when they are on the streets if they were accompanied by a dog on a leash ? ?
I grant that the dog may not be really protective , based on his training , but if you were roaming the streets looking for a purse to snatch or a young lady to molest , how quick would you be to attack a person strolling with a dog ? ?
I would like to suggest that the landlords and Commissioners get together and consider liberalizing the practice of prohibiting dogs in apartments .
Sidewalk cafes
Use the terraces of the Capitol for a sidewalk cafe ? ?
Could Senator Humphrey be serious in his proposal ? ?
Is nothing in this country more sacred than the tourists' comfort ? ?
Perhaps the idea of sidewalk cafes could be extended .
The Lincoln and Jefferson Memorials are rather bleak .
Why not put a cafe in each so the tourists would not have to travel too far to eat ? ?
Unfortunately the cafes might not make enough money to support themselves during the off season .
As an added suggestion to balance the budget , the Government could sell advertising space on the Washington Monument .
It is visible throughout the city , and men from Madison Ave. would jump at the chance .
Sen. Hubert Humphrey is obviously a man with a soul and heart .
He , like most of us , wants to be able to sit , to contemplate and be moved by the great outdoors .
Let us have more benches and fewer forbidden areas around fountains and gardens .
Let us , like the French , have outdoor cafes where we may relax , converse at leisure and enjoy the passing crowd .
Dissenting views of senators
Two strong dissents from the majority report of the Joint Economic Committee ( May 2 ) by Senators Proxmire and Butler allege that the New Deal fiscal policy of the Thirties did not work .
For a neutral Germany
Soviets said to fear resurgence of German militarism
to the editor of the New York Times :
For the first time in history the entire world is dominated by two large , powerful nations armed with murderous nuclear weapons that make conventional warfare of the past a nullity .
The United States and Soviet Russia have enough nuclear weapons to destroy all nations .
Recent statements by well-known scientists regarding the destructive power of the newest nuclear bombs and the deadly fall-outs should be sufficient to still the voices of those who advocate nuclear warfare instead of negotiations .
President Kennedy was right when he said , `` We shall never negotiate out of fear and we never shall fear to negotiate '' .
I have just returned from a seven-week trip to Europe and the Far East .
It is quite evident that the people of Western Europe are overwhelmingly opposed to participation in a nuclear war .
The fact is that the Italians , French and British know that they have no defense against nuclear bombs .
We have no right to criticize them , as they realize they would be sitting ducks in a nuclear war .
We should stand firmly and courageously for our right to free access into Berlin .
It would be criminal folly if the Communists tried to prevent us .
But there is nothing we can do to stop Soviet Russia from granting de facto recognition to East Germany .
Soviet Russia has been invaded twice by German troops in a generation .
In the last war Russia lost more than ten million killed and its lands and factories were devastated .
Probable agreement
The truth is that Communist Russia fears the resurgence of German militarism .
Berlin is merely being used by Moscow as a stalking horse .
Actually , the Communists , out of fear of a united and armed Germany , would probably be willing to agree to a disarmed Germany that would be united and neutral and have its independence guaranteed by the U.N. .
If the Communists are sincere in wanting a united , neutral and disarmed Germany , it might well be advantageous for the German people in this nuclear age .
It could provide security without cost of armaments and increase German prosperity and lessen taxation .
France and other Western European nations likewise fear a rearmed Germany .
If the German people favor such a settlement we should not oppose Germany following the example of Austria .
President Kennedy has urged a peace race on disarmament that might be called `` Operation Survival '' which has many facets .
Why not make a beginning with a united and disarmed Germany whose neutrality and immunity from nuclear bombing would be guaranteed by the Big Four powers and the United States ? ?
A united Germany , freed of militarism , might be the first step toward disarmament and peace in a terrorized and tortured world .
Meeting U.N. obligations
to the editor of the New York Times :
In your editorial of Sept. 30 `` The Smoldering Congo '' you make the following comment : `` Far too many states are following the Russian example in refusing to pay their assessments .
It is up to the Assembly to take action against them .
They are violating their Charter obligation , the prescribed penalty for which is suspension of membership or expulsion '' .
I would like to quote from the Charter of the United Nations :
`` Article 17 , Section 1 : :
The General Assembly shall consider and approve the budget of the Organization .
`` Section 2 : :
The expenses of the Organization shall be borne by the Members as apportioned by the General Assembly .
`` Article 19 : :
A Member of the United Nations which is in arrears in the payment of its financial contributions to the Organization shall have no vote in the General Assembly if the amount of its arrears equals or exceeds the amount of the contributions due from it for the preceding two full years '' .
The U.S.S.R. and her followers are careful in paying their obligations to the regular budget .
But they refuse , as do the Arab states , to support the United Nations' expenses of maintaining the United Nations Emergency Force in the Middle East as a buffer between Egypt and Israel , and the U.N. troops in the Congo , which expenses are not covered by the regular budget of the United Nations , but by a special budget .
According to the official interpretation of the Charter , a member cannot be penalized by not having the right to vote in the General Assembly for nonpayment of financial obligations to the `` special '' United Nations' budgets , and of course cannot be expelled from the Organization ( which you suggested in your editorial ) , due to the fact that there is no provision in the Charter for expulsion .
To aid international law
Connally amendment's repeal held step toward world order
to the editor of the New York Times :
In your Sept. 27 editorial appraisal of the work of the First Session of the Eighty-seventh Congress you referred to the lack of `` consciousness of destiny in a time of acute national and world peril '' .
Yet your list of things left undone did not include repeal of the Connally amendment to this country's domestic jurisdiction reservation to its Adherence to the Statute of the International Court of Justice .
The Connally amendment says that the United States , rather than the court , shall determine whether a matter is essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of the United States in a case before the World Court to which the United States is a party .
If the case is thus determined by us to be domestic , the court has no jurisdiction .
Since the Connally amendment has the effect of giving the same right to the other party to a dispute with the United States , it also prevents us from using the court effectively .
Yet although the Kennedy Administration , and the Eisenhower Administration before it , have both declared themselves solidly for repeal of the Connally amendment , as contrary to our best interests , no action has yet been taken .
Our `` destiny '' in these perilous times should be to lead strongly in the pursuit of peace , with justice , under law .
To achieve this destiny , acts as well as words are needed -- not only acts that lead to physical strength but also acts that lead to strength based on right doing and respect .
What better affirmative step could be taken to this end than repeal of the Connally amendment -- an act which could expose the United States to no practical risk yet would put an end to our self-judging attitude toward the court , enable us to utilize it , and advance in a tangible way the cause of international law and order ? ?
We believe that the list of vital things left undone to date by the Eighty-seventh Congress should have included repeal by the Senate of the Connally amendment .
For better subway services
to the editor of the New York Times :
Many home-bound subway riders utilizing the Flushing-Main Street express are daily confronted with the sight of the local departing from the Woodside station as their express comes to a stop , leaving them stranded and strained .
To the tens of thousands who must transfer to ride to Seventy-fourth Street and change for the IND , this takes a daily toll of time and temper .
The Transit Authority has recently placed in operation `` hold '' lights at BMT Thirty-ninth and Fifty-ninth Street stations in Brooklyn .
This `` holds '' the local until the express passengers change trains .
Without question , this time and temper saver should be immediately installed at the Woodside station .
Phone service criticized
to the editor of the New York Times :
As a business man I have to use the telephone constantly , from three to four hours a day .
In the last few years the telephone company has managed to automate many areas of their service .
It has not been any great mental effort on my part to keep up with this mechanization which has brought about new ways of dialing .
However , there are still several types of calls that necessitate the use of telephone operators .
I have been absolutely shocked at the ineptness of the young ladies who are servicing person-to-person calls , special long-distance calls , etc. .
Either it is lack of training , lack of proper screening when hiring , lack of management or possibly lack of interest on the part of the telephone company , which does have a Government-blessed monopoly .
Fair-priced funeral
to the editor :
I disagree with the writer who says funeral services should be government-controlled .
The funeral for my husband was just what I wanted and I paid a fair price , far less than I had expected to pay .
But the hospitals and doctors should be .
Helping retarded children
to the editor :
Recently I visited the very remarkable Pilgrim School for retarded children .
Hazel Park donates its recreation center , five days a week , to the school .
There is no charge and no state aid .
Kiwanis , American Legion and other groups donate small sums and the mothers do what they can to bring in dollars for its support .
There are 70 children there and the mothers donate one day a week to the school .
Reading , writing and simple arithmetic are taught along with such crafts as working in brass .
They make beautiful objects .
Enough trading stamps were collected to buy a 12-passenger station wagon .
Southfield schools furnish an old 45-passenger bus ( the heater in which needs repair since some of the children ride a long distance and need the heat ) .
The school is located at 9-1/2 Mile Road , Woodward Heights .
Visitors are welcome to come see what these dedicated mothers can do .
Jobs for Cavanagh
to the editor :
I was surprised at Mayor Miriani's defeat , but perhaps Mayor-elect Cavanagh can accomplish some things that should have been done years ago .
Maybe he can clean out the white elephants in some of the city departments such as welfare , DPW and sanitation .
Negligence in garbage and rubbish collections and alley cleaning is great .
He should put the police back to patrolling and walking the streets at night .
There should be better bus service and all of our city departments and their various branches need a general and complete overhauling .
Our litterbug ordinances are not enforced and I have yet to read of a conviction in a littering case .
Drunken truck drivers in the city departments should be weeded out .
Educate the city employes to give real service to the public .
After all , they are paid by the public , they should be examples .
Church finds news features are helpful
to the editor :
At a recent meeting of the Women's Association of the Trumbull Ave. United Presbyterian Church , considerable use was made of material from The Detroit News on the King James version of the New Testament versus the New English Bible .
Some members of the organization called attention also to the article on hymns of inspiration , the Daily Prayer and Three Minutes A Day , as being very helpful .
We feel that The Detroit News is to be complimented upon arranging for articles on these subjects and we hope that it will continue to provide material along wholesome lines .
Rude youngsters
to the editor :
Thank you for the article by George Sokolsky on the public apathy to impudence .
How old do you have to be to remember when Americans , especially children , were encouraged to be polite ? ?
Why has this form of gentility gone out of American life ? ?
How can we old-fashioned parents , who still feel that adults are due some respect from children , battle the new type of advertising that appears on TV without denying the children the use of television entirely ? ?
Writers of ads must get their inspiration from the attitude of `` modern '' parents they have observed .
From necessity , they are also inspired by the `` hard-sell '' attitude of the sponsor , so , finally , it is the sponsor who must take the responsibility for the good or bad taste of his advertising .
Dunes park advocate
to the editor :
I commend Senator Hart for his brave fight to establish a national park in the dunes area .
Ghost town ? ?
To the editor of the Inquirer :
I just wish to congratulate Inspector Trimmer and his efficient police troops in cleaning the city of those horrible automobiles .
We have now a quiet city , fewer automobiles , less congestion , and fewer retail customers shopping in center city .
Good for Mr. Trimmer .
Maybe he will help to turn our fair city into a `` ghost '' town .
Defends big trucks
to the editor of the Inquirer :
I worked on the Schuylkill Expressway and if it had not been for the big trucks carrying rock and concrete there wouldn't be an Expressway .
Without these massive trucks highways would still be just an idea of the future .
Mr. George Hough ( Oct. 30 ) sounds like a business man who waits until the last minute to leave his home or shop .
The trucks today help pay for this highway .
They try to keep within the speed limits .
Although today's trucks are as fast as passenger cars , a truck driver has to be a sensible person and guard against hogging the road .
Out of school at 14
to the editor of the Inquirer :
The letter writer who suggested saving money by taking kids out of school at 14 should have signed his letter `` simpleton '' instead of `` simplicitude '' .
Such kids only wind up among the unemployed on relief or in jail where they become a much bigger burden .
There are lots of jobs available for trained high school graduates , but not for the dropouts .
What we need is more vocational training in high schools , not more dropouts .
Two wrongs
to the editor of the Inquirer :
I suppose I am missing some elementary point but I honestly cannot see how two wrongs can make a right ! !
I am referring to this country conducting atmosphere tests of nuclear bombs just because Russia is .
Will our bombs be cleaner or will their fallout be less harmful to future generations of children ? ?
If an atom bomb in 1945 could destroy an entire city surely the atomic arsenal we now have is more than adequate to fulfill any military objective required of it .
As I see it , if war starts and we survive the initial attack enough to be able to fight back , the nuclear weapons we now have -- at least the bombs -- can inflict all the demage that is necessary .
Why do we need bigger and better bombs ? ?
I repeat , two wrongs do not make a right .
' we tremble not '
to the editor of the Inquirer :
Everyone should take time to read Martin Luther's Hymn `` A Mighty Fortress Is Our God '' .
Especially the first half of the third verse :
out of the race
to the editor of the Inquirer :
To our everlasting shame , we led the world in this nuclear arms race sixteen years ago when we dropped the first bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki .
Having led the world in this mad race I pray that we may have the wisdom and courage to lead it out of the race .
Are we to be the master of the atom , or will the atom be our master -- and destroy us ! !
Why trust Jagan ? ?
To the editor of the Inquirer :
Just because Cheddi Jagan , new boss of British Guiana , was educated in the United States is no reason to think he isn't a Red .
We have quite a few home-grown specimens of our own .
If we go all gooey over this newest Castro ( until he proves he isn't ) we've got rocks in our heads .
How many times must we get burned before we learn ? ?
Russia and U.N.
to the editor of the Inquirer :
Just to remind the Communists that the bombs dropped on Japan were to end a war not start one .
The war could have continued many years with many thousands killed on both sides .
Intelligent people will admit that bombs and rockets of destruction are frightening whether they fall on Japan , London or Pearl Harbor .
That is why the United Nations was formed so that intelligent men with good intentions from all countries could meet and solve problems without resorting to war .
Russia has showed its intentions by exploding bombs in peace time to try to frighten the world .
Why aren't the Soviets expelled from the U.N. ? ?
Belated tribute
to the editor of the Inquirer :
While `` better late than never '' may have certain merits , the posthumous award of the Nobel Prize for Peace to the late Dag Hammarskjold strikes me as less than a satisfactory expression of appreciation .
Had it been bestowed while the Secretary General of the United Nations was living , unquestionably he would have been greatly encouraged in pursuing a difficult and , in many ways , thankless task .
According to one report , however , Mr. Hammarskjold was considered `` too controversial '' a figure to warrant bestowal of the coveted honor last spring .
Actually , of course , that label `` controversial '' applied only because he was carrying out the mandate given him by the world organization he headed rather than following the dictates of the Soviet Union .
At Khrushchev's door , therefore , can be placed the primary blame but also at fault are those who permitted themselves to be intimidated .
It is well for us to remember that a wreath on a coffin never can atone for flowers withheld while they still can be enjoyed .
As has happened so often in the past , the ability to recognize true greatness has been inadequate and tardy .
' people to people '
to the editor of the Inquirer :
Just a brief note of appreciation to Vice President Johnson and Pakistani camel driver Bashir Ahmad for providing a first-class example of `` people to people '' good will .
If only this could be done more often -- with such heartening results -- many of the earth's `` big problems '' would shrink to the insignificances they really are .
P.S. .
Thanks for your good coverage of Ahmad's visit , too ! !
Expressway answer : East River Drive
to the editor of the Inquirer :
Your continuing editorials concerning the Schuylkill Expressway are valuable ; ;
however , several pertinent considerations deserve recognition .
One of the problems associated with the expressway stems from the basic idea .
We shuffle a large percentage of the cars across the river twice .
They start on the East side of the Schuylkill , have to cross over to the West to use the expressway and cross over again to the East at their destination .
Bridges , tunnels and ferries are the most common methods of river crossings .
Each one of these is , by its nature , a focal point or a point of natural congestion .
We should avoid these congestion points or , putting it another way , keep cars starting and ending on the East side of the river -- on the East side .
This can be accomplished by several logical steps : ( 1 )
Widen the East River Drive at least one lane .
( 2 )
So widen it as to minimize the present curves and eliminate drainage problems .
( 3 )
Paint continuous lane stripes and install overhead directional lights as on our bridges .
One additional lane would then be directional with the traffic burden and effectively increase the traffic carrying capability of the East River Drive by fifty percent .
( 4 )
This could be accomplished without the tremendous expenditures necessitated by the Schuylkill Expressway and without destroying the natural beauty of the East River Drive .
Shadow over Washington Square
to the editor of the Inquirer :
I wish to advocate two drastic changes in Washington Square : 1 .
Take away George Washington's statue .
2 .
Replace it with the statue of one or another of the world's famous dictators .
There's no sense in being reminded of times that were .
Washington Square seems not part of a free land .
It may remind one of Russia , China or East Berlin ; ;
but it can't remind one of the freedom that Washington and the Continental soldiers fought for .
The Fairmount Park Commission will no doubt approve my two proposals , because it is responsible for the change of ideological atmosphere in the Square .
The matter may seem a small thing to some people , I know , but it's a very good start on the road to Totalitarianism The Commission has posted signs in Washington Square saying :
The Feeding of Birds is Prohibited in This square .
Fairmount Park Commission
Does each tentacle of the octopus of City Government reach out and lash at whatever it dislikes or considers an annoyance ? ?
If birds don't belong in a Square or Park , what does ? ?
They are the most beautiful part of that little piece of nature .
The trees are their homes ; ;
but the Commission does not share such sentiments .
The whole official City apparently has an intense hatred toward birds .
Starlings and blackbirds are scared off by canon , from City Hall .
Just a preliminary measure .
If any are left , presently , we may expect to see signs specifically prohibiting the feeding of them too .
The City Government is not united in an all-out , to-the-death drive to stamp out gangs , delinquents , thugs , murderers , rapists , subversives .
Indeed no .
Let every policeman and park guard keep his eye on John and Jane Doe , lest one piece of bread be placed undetected and one bird survive .
Of course , in this small way of forcing the people to watch as tiny and innocent and dependent creatures die because we're afraid to feed them and afraid to protest and say , `` How come ? ?
What's your motive ? ?
Who wants this deed done '' ? ?
-- in this small way do the leaders of a city , or of a nation , inure the masses to watching , or even inflicting , torture and death , upon even their fellow men .
One means to help the birds occurs to me : Let the chimes that ring over Washington Square twice daily , discontinue any piece of music but one .
Let them offer on behalf of those creatures whose melody has been the joy of mankind since time began , the hymn `` Abide With Me '' .
We will know , and He will know , to whom it is rendered , what the birds would ask :
not push-ups but stand-ups
to the editor of the Inquirer :
There is a trend today to bemoan the fact that Americans are too `` soft '' .
Unfortunately , those who would remedy our `` softness '' seek to do so with calisthenics .
They are working on the wrong part of our anatomy .
It is not our bodies but our hearts and heads that have grown too soft .
Ashamed of our wealth and power , afraid of so-called world opinion and addicted to peace , we have allowed our soft-heartedness to lead to soft-headed policies .
When we become firm enough to stand for those ideals which we know to be right , when we become hard enough to refuse to aid nations which do not permit self-determination , when we become strong enough to resist any more drifts towards socialism in our own Nation , when we recognize that our enemy is Communism not war , and when we realize that concessions to Communists do not insure peace or freedom , then , and only then will we no longer be `` soft '' .
America doesn't need to `` push-up '' , she needs to stand up ! !
Disputes Stans column business scandal views
to the editor :
The new column by Maurice Stans regarding business scandals , is fair and accurate in most respects and his solution to the problem has some merit .
However , he states unequivocally `` the scandals in business are far less significant than the scandals in labor '' .
I must , in fairness , take issue with his premise , primarily because the so-called scandals in labor unions were very much connected with business scandals .
The area most prominently commented on during the McClellan hearings had to do with `` sweetheart contracts '' .
These arrangements would have been impossible if the business community was truly interested in the welfare of its employes .
A sweetheart arrangement can come about as often by employers doing the corrupting as by unscrupulous labor leaders demanding tribute .
Anyone familiar with the details of the McClellan hearings must at once realize that the sweetheart arrangements augmented employer profits far more than they augmented the earnings of the corruptible labor leaders .
Further , it should be recalled that some very definite steps were taken by Congress to combat corruption in the labor movement by its passage of the Landrum-Griffin Act .
Escalation unto death
The nuclear war is already being fought , except that the bombs are not being dropped on enemy targets -- not yet .
It is being fought , moreover , in fairly close correspondence with the predictions of the soothsayers of the think factories .
They predicted escalation , and escalation is what we are getting .
The biggest nuclear device the United States has exploded measured some 15 megatons , although our B-52s are said to be carrying two 20-megaton bombs apiece .
Some time ago , however , Mr. Khrushchev decided that when bigger bombs were made , the Soviet Union would make them .
He seems to have at least a few 30- and 50-megaton bombs on hand , since we cannot assume that he has exploded his entire stock .
And now , of course , the hue and cry for counter-escalation is being raised on our side .
Khrushchev threatens us with a 100-megaton bomb ? ?
So be it -- then we must embark on a crash program for 200-megaton bombs of the common or hydrogen variety , and neutron bombs , which do not exist but are said to be the coming thing .
So escalation proceeds , ad infinitum or , more accurately , until the contestants begin dropping them on each other instead of on their respective proving grounds .
What is needed , Philip Morrison writes in The Cornell Daily Sun ( October 26 ) is a discontinuity .
The escalation must end sometime , and probably quite soon .
`` Only a discontinuity can end it '' , Professor Morrison writes .
`` The discontinuity can either be that of war to destruction , or that of diplomatic policy '' .
Morrison points out that since our country is more urbanized than the Soviet Union or Red China , it is the most vulnerable of the great powers -- Europe of course must be written off out of hand .
He feels , therefore , that to seek a discontinuity in the arms policy of the United States is the least risky path our government can take .
His proposal is opposed to that of Richard Nixon , Governor Rockefeller , past chairmen Strauss and McCone of the Atomic Energy Commission , Dr. Edward Teller and those others now enjoying their hour of triumph in the exacerbation of the cold war .
These gentlemen are calling for a resumption of testing -- in the atmosphere -- on the greatest possible scale , all in the name of national security .
Escalation is their first love and their last ; ;
they will be faithful unto death .
Capable as their minds may be in some directions , these guardians of the nation's security are incapable of learning , or even of observing .
If this capacity had not failed them , they would see that their enemy has made a disastrous miscalculation .
He has gained only one thing -- he has exploded a 50-megaton bomb and he probably has rockets with sufficient thrust to lob it over the shorter intercontinental ranges .
But if his purpose was to inspire terror , his action could hardly have miscarried more obviously .
Not terror , but anger and resentment have been the general reaction outside the Soviet sphere .
Khrushchev himself is reported to be concerned by the surge of animosity he has aroused , yet our own nuclear statesmen seem intent on following compulsively in his footsteps .
When one powerful nation strives to emulate the success of another , it is only natural .
Thus , when the Russians sent up their first sputnik , American chagrin was human enough , and American determination to put American satellites into orbit was perfectly understandable .
But to imitate an opponent when he has made the mistake of his life would be a new high in statesmanlike folly .
The tide turns
When East Germans fled to the West by the thousands , paeans of joy rose from the throats of Western publicists .
They are less vocal now , when it is the West Berliners who are migrating .
The flood is not as great -- only 700 a week according to one apparently conservative account -- but it is symptomatic .
West Berlin morale is low and , in age distribution , the situation is unfavorable .
Nearly 18 per cent of West Berlin's 2,200,000 residents are sixty-five or older , only 12.8 per cent are under fifteen .
R. H. S. Crossman , M.P. , writing in The Manchester Guardian , states that departures from West Berlin are now running at the rate not of 700 , but of 1,700 a week , and applications to leave have risen to 1,900 a week .
The official statistics show that 60 per cent are employed workers or independent professional people .
Whole families are moving and removal firms are booked for months ahead .
The weekly loss is partly counterbalanced by 500 arrivals each week from West Germany , but the hard truth , says Crossman , is that `` The closing off of East Berlin without interference from the West and with the use only of East German , as distinct from Russian , troops was a major Communist victory , which dealt West Berlin a deadly , possibly a fatal , blow .
The gallant half-city is dying on its feet '' .
Another piece of evidence appears in a dispatch from Bonn in The Observer ( London ) .
Mark Arnold-Foster writes : `` People are leaving ( West Berlin ) because they think it is dying .
They are leaving so fast that the president of the West German Employers' Federation issued an appeal this week to factory workers in the West to volunteer for six months' front-line work in factories in West Berlin .
Berlin's resilience is amazing , but if it has to hire its labor in the West the struggle will be hard indeed '' .
The handwriting is on the wall .
The only hope for West Berlin lies in a compromise which will bring down the wall and reunite the city .
State Department officials refusing to show their passes at the boundary , and driving two blocks into East Berlin under military escort , will not avail .
Tanks lined up at the border will be no more helpful .
The materials for compromise are at hand : The Nation , Walter Lippmann and other sober commentators ( see Alan Clark on p. 367 ) have spelled them out again and again .
A compromise will leave both sides without the glow of triumph , but it will save Berlin .
Or the city can be a graveyard monument to Western intransigence , if that is what the West wants .
Vacancy
The removal of Stalin's body from the mausoleum he shared with Lenin to less distinguished quarters in the Kremlin wall is not unprecedented in history .
It is , in fact , a relatively mild chastisement of the dead .
A British writer , Richard Haestier , in a book , Dead Men Tell Tales , recalls that in the turmoil preceding the French Revolution the body of Henry 4 , , who had died nearly 180 years earlier , was torn to pieces by a mob .
And in England , after the Restoration , the body of Cromwell was disinterred and hanged at Tyburn .
The head was then fixed on a pole at Westminster , and the rest of the body was buried under the gallows .
Contemplating these posthumous punishments , Stalin should not lose all hope .
In 1899 , Parliament erected a statue to Cromwell in Westminster , facing Whitehall and there , presumably , he still stands .
Nikita Khrushchev , however , has created yet another problem for himself .
The Lenin tomb is obviously adequate for double occupancy , Moscow is a crowded city , and the creed of Communism deplores waste .
Who will take Stalin's place beside Lenin ? ?
There is Karl Marx , of course , buried in London .
The Macmillan government might be willing to let him go , but he has been dead seventy-eight years and even the Soviet morticians could not make him look presentable .
Who , then , is of sufficient stature to lodge with Lenin ? ?
Who but Nikita himself ? ?
Since he has just shown who is top dog , he may not be ready to receive this highest honor in the gift of the Soviet people .
Besides , he can hardly avoid musing on the instability of death which , what with exhumations and rehabilitations , seems to match that of life .
Suppose he did lie beside Lenin , would it be permanent ? ?
If some future Khrushchev decided to rake up the misdeeds of his revered predecessor , would not the factory workers pass the same resolutions applauding his dispossession ? ?
When a man is laid to rest , he is entitled to stay put .
If Nikita buys a small plot in some modest rural cemetery , everyone will understand .
U Thant of Burma
The appointment of U Thant of Burma as the U.N.'s Acting Secretary General -- at this writing , the choice appears to be certain -- offers further proof that in politics it is more important to have no influential enemies than to have influential friends .
Mongi Slim of Tunisia and Frederick Boland of Ireland were early favorites in the running , but France didn't like the former and the Soviet Union would have none of the latter .
With the neutralists maintaining pressure for one of their own to succeed Mr. Hammarskjold , U Thant emerged as the only possible candidate unlikely to be waylaid by a veto .
What is interesting is that his positive qualifications for the post were revealed only as a kind of tail to his candidacy .
In all the bitter in-fighting , the squabbles over election procedures , the complicated numbers game that East and West played on the assistant secretaries' theme , the gentleman from Burma showed himself both as a man of principle and a skilled diplomat .
He has , moreover , another qualification which augurs well for the future .
He is a Buddhist , which means that to him peace and the sanctity of human life are not only religious dogma , but a profound and unshakable Weltanschauung .
U Thant of course , will hold office until the spring of 1963 , when Mr. Hammarskjold's term would have come to an end .
Whether the compromises -- on both sides -- that made possible the interim appointment can then be repeated remains to be seen .
Mr. Khrushchev's demand for a troika is dormant , not dead ; ;
the West may or not remain satisfied with the kind of neutralism that U Thant represents .
In a sense , the showdown promised by Mr. Hammarskjold's sudden and tragic death has been avoided ; ;
no precedents have been set as yet ; ;
structurally , the U.N. is still fluid , vulnerable to the pressures that its new and enlarged membership are bringing to bear upon it .
But at least the pessimists who believed that the world organization had plunged to its death in that plane crash in the Congo have been proved wrong .
To the hills , girls
.
No one who has studied the radical Right can suppose that words are their sole staple in trade .
These are mentalities which crave action -- and they are beginning to get it , as Messrs. Salsich and Engh report on page 372 .
Even in areas where political connotations are ( deliberately ? ?
) left vague , the spirit of vigilantism is spreading .
Friends , a picture magazine distributed by Chevrolet dealers , describes a paramilitary organization of employees of the Gulf Telephone Company at Foley , Alabama .
`` If the day should ever come that foreign invaders swarm ashore along the Gulf Coast '' , the account reads , `` they can count on heavy opposition from a group of commando-trained telephone employees -- all girls .
Heavily armed and mobilized as a fast-moving Civil Defense outfit , 23 operators and office personnel stand ready to move into action at a minute's notice '' .
According to Friends , the unit was organized by John Snook , a former World War 2 , commando who is vice president and general manager of the telephone company .
The girls , very fetching in their uniforms , are shown firing rockets from a launcher mounted on a dump truck ; ;
they are also trained with carbines , automatic weapons , pistols , rifles and other such ladies' accessories .
This may be opera bouffe now , but it will become more serious should the cold war mount in frenzy .
The country is committed to the doctrine of security by military means .
The doctrine has never worked ; ;
it is not working now .
The official military establishment can only threaten to use its nuclear arms ; ;
it cannot bring them into actual play .
A more dangerous formula for national frustration cannot be imagined .
As the civic temper rises , the more naive citizens begin to play soldier -- but the guns are real .
Soon they will begin to hunt down the traitors they are assured are in our midst .
All false gods resemble Moloch , at least in the early phases of their careers , so it would be unreasonable to expect any form of idol-worship to become widespread without the accompaniment of human sacrifice .
But there is reason in all things , and in this country the heathenish cult of the motor-car is exceeding all bounds in its demands .
The annual butchery of 40,000 American men , women and children to satiate its blood-lust is excessive ; ;
a quota of 25,000 a year would be more than sufficient .
No other popular idol is accorded even that much grace .
If the railroads , for example , regularly slaughtered 25,000 passengers each year , the high priests of the cult would have cause to tremble for their personal safety , for such a holocaust would excite demands for the hanging of every railroad president in the United States .
But by comparison with the railroad , the motor car is a relatively new object of popular worship , so it is too much to hope that it may be brought within the bounds of civilized usage quickly and easily .
Yet it is plainly time to make a start , and to be effective the first move should be highly dramatic , without being fanatical .
Here , then , is what Swift would have called a modest proposal by way of a beginning .
From next New Year's Day let us keep careful account of each successive fatality on the highways , publicizing it on all media of communication .
To avoid suspicion of bigotry , let the hand of vengeance be stayed until the meat-wagon has picked up the twenty-five thousandth corpse ; ;
but let the twenty-five thousand and first butchery be the signal for the arrest of the 50 state highway commissioners .
Then let the whole lot be hanged in a public mass execution on July 4 , 1963 .
The scene , of course , should be nine miles northwest of Centralia , Illinois , the geographical center of population according to the census .
A special grandstand , protected by awnings from the midsummer sun of Illinois , should be erected for occupancy by honored guests , who should include the ambassadors of all those new African nations as yet not quite convinced that the United States is thoroughly civilized .
The band should play the Rogues' March as a processional , switching to `` Hail Columbia , Happy Land '' ! !
As the trap is sprung .
Independence Day is the appropriate date as a symbolical reminder of the American article of faith that governments are instituted among men to secure to them certain inalienable rights , the first of which is life , and when any government becomes subversive of that end , it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it .
The highway system is an agency of government , and when it grinds up 40,000 Americans every year the government is destroying its own taxpayers , which is obviously a silly thing for any government to do .
Hanging the responsible officials would not abolish the government , but would emphasize its accountability for the lives of its individual citizens , which would certainly alter it , and definitely for the better .
Moreover , the salubrious effects would not be exclusively political , but at least partially , and perhaps primarily social .
It would challenge sharply not the cult of the motor car itself but some of its ancillary beliefs and practices -- for instance , the doctrine that the fulfillment of life consists in proceeding from hither to yon , not for any advantage to be gained by arrival but merely to avoid the cardinal sin of stasis , or , as it is generally termed , staying put .
True , the adherents of staying put are now reduced to a minor , even a miniscule sect , and their credo , `` Home-keeping hearts are happiest '' , is as disreputable as Socinianism .
Nonetheless , although few in number they are a stubborn crew , as tenacious of life as the Hardshell Baptists , which suggests that there is some kind of vital principle embodied in their faith .
Perhaps there is more truth than we are wont to admit in the conviction of that ornament of Tarheelia , Robert Ruark's grandfather , who was persuaded that the great curse of the modern world is `` all this gallivantin' '' .
In any event , the yearly sacrifice of 40,000 victims is a hecatomb too large to be justified by the most ardent faith .
Somehow our contemporary Moloch must be induced to see reason .
Since appeals to morality , to humanity , and to sanity have had such small effect , perhaps our last recourse is the deterrent example .
If we make it established custom that whenever butchery on the highways grows excessive , say beyond 25,000 per annum , then somebody is going to hang , it follows that the more eminent the victim , the more impressive the lesson .
To hang 50 Governors might be preferable except that they are not directly related to the highways ; ;
so , all things considered , the highway commissioners would seem to be elected .
As the new clouds of radioactive fallout spread silently and invisibly around the earth , the Soviet Union stands guilty of a monstrous crime against the human race .
But the guilt is shared by the United States , Britain and France , the other members of the atomic club .
Until Moscow resumed nuclear testing last September 1 , the US and UK had released more than twice as much radiation into the atmosphere as the Russians , and the fallout from the earlier blasts is still coming down .
As it descends , the concentration of radioactivity builds up in the human body ; ;
for a dose of radiation is not like a flu virus which causes temporary discomfort and then dies .
The effect of radiation is cumulative over the years -- and on to succeeding generations .
So , while we properly inveigh against the new poisoning , history is not likely to justify the pose of righteousness which some in the West were so quick to assume when Mr. Khrushchev made his cynical and irresponsible threat .
Shock , dismay and foreboding for future generations were legitimate reactions ; ;
a holier-than-thou sermon was not .
On October 19 , after the Soviets had detonated at least 20 nuclear devices , Ambassador Stevenson warned the UN General Assembly that this country , in `` self protection '' , might have to resume above-ground tests .
More recently , the chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission , Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg , `` admitted '' to a news conference in Las Vegas , Nevada , that the US might fall behind Russia ( he apparently meant in weapons development ) if the Soviets continue to test in the atmosphere while we abstain .
The trial balloons are afloat .
All of which makes it more imperative than ever that the biological and genetic effects of fallout be understood .
But for the average citizen , unfortunately , this is one of science's worst-marked channels , full of tricky currents and unknown depths .
The scientists , in and out of government , do not agree on some of the most vital points , at least publicly .
On the one hand , the Public Health Service declared as recently as October 26 that present radiation levels resulting from the Soviet shots `` do not warrant undue public concern '' or any action to limit the intake of radioactive substances by individuals or large population groups anywhere in the Aj .
But the PHS conceded that the new radioactive particles `` will add to the risk of genetic effects in succeeding generations , and possibly to the risk of health damage to some people in the United States '' .
Then it added : `` It is not possible to determine how extensive these ill effects will be -- nor how many people will be affected '' .
Having hedged its bets in this way , PHS apparently decided it would be possible to make some sort of determination after all : `` At present radiation levels , and even at somewhat higher levels , the additional risk is slight and very few people will be affected '' .
Then , to conclude on an indeterminate note : `` Nevertheless , if fallout increased substantially , or remained high for a long time , it would become far more important as a potential health hazard in this country and throughout the world '' .
Dr. Linus Pauling , a Nobel Prize winner in chemistry , has been less ambiguous , whether you choose to agree with him or not .
After declaring , in an article last month in Frontier Magazine , that the Russian testing `` carries with it the possibility of the most tragic consequences of any action in the history of the world '' , he gave this estimate of the biologic and genetic consequences if the new Soviet shots totaled 200 megatons :
The damage to human germ plasm would be such that in the next few generations 160,000 children around the world would be born with gross physical or mental defects .
Long-lived carbon-14 from the fusion process would cause four million embryonic , neonatal or childhood deaths and stillbirths over the next 20 generations , and between 200,000 and one million human beings now living would have their lives cut short by radiation-produced diseases such as leukemia .
Most of these would be in the Northern Hemisphere , where the fallout is concentrating .
Pauling's estimate of 200 megatons yield from the present series of Russian tests will probably turn out to be too high , but a total of 100 megatons is a distinct possibility .
The lack of scientific unanimity on the effects of radiation is due in part to insufficient data covering large population groups , from which agreed-on generalizations could be drawn .
But more than one conscientious researcher has been inhibited from completely frank discussion of the available evidence by the less excusable fact that fallout has been made a political issue as well as a scientific problem .
Its dangerous effects have been downgraded to the public by some who believe national security requires further testing .
An illustration of this attitude is found in John A. McCone's letter to Dr. Thomas Lauritsen , reported in a note elsewhere in this issue of The New Republic .
To this day the Atomic Energy Commission shies away from discussing the health aspects of fallout .
A recent study on radiation exposure by the AEC's division of biology and medicine stated : `` The question of the biological effect of ( radiation ) doses is not considered '' herein .
Of course , the AEC is in a bind now .
If it comes down too hard on the potential dangers of fallout , it will box the President on resuming atmospheric tests .
So the Commission's announcements of the new Soviet shots have been confined to one or two bleak sentences , with the fission yield usually left vague .
Now , of course , that the Russians are the nuclear villains , radiation is a nastier word than it was in the mid , when the US was testing in the atmosphere .
The prevailing official attitude then seemed to be that fallout , if not exactly good for you , might not be much worse than a bad cold .
After a nuclear blast , one bureaucrat suggested in those halcyon days , about all you had to do was haul out the broom and sweep off your sidewalks and roof .
Things aren't that simple anymore .
Yet if Washington gets too indignant about Soviet fallout , it will have to do a lot of fast footwork if America decides it too must start pushing up the radiation count .
How much fallout will we get ? ?
As of October 25 , the AEC had reported 24 shots in the new Soviet series , 12 of them in a megaton range , including a super bomb with a yield of 30 to 50 megatons ( the equivalent of 30 million to 50 million tons of TNT ) ; ;
and President Kennedy indicated there were one or two more than those reported .
Assuming the lower figure for the big blast and one shot estimated by the Japanese at 10 megatons , a conservative computation is that the 24 announced tests produced a total yield of at least 60 megatons .
Some government scientists say privately that the figure probably is closer to 80 megatons , and that the full 50-megaton bomb that Khrushchev mentioned may still be detonated .
If the new Soviet series has followed the general pattern of previous Russian tests , the shots were roughly half fission and half fusion , meaning a fission yield of 30 to 40 megatons thus far .
To this must be added the 90 to 92 megatons of fission yield produced between the dawn of the atomic age in 1945 and the informal three-power test moratorium that began in November , 1958 .
Resuming atmospheric tests
One of the inescapable realities of the Cold War is that it has thrust upon the West a wholly new and historically unique set of moral dilemmas .
The first dilemma was the morality of nuclear warfare itself .
That dilemma is as much with us as ever .
The second great dilemma has been the morality of nuclear testing , a dilemma which has suddenly become acute because of the present series of Soviet tests .
When this second dilemma first became obvious -- during the mid to late '50's -- the United States appeared to have three choices .
It could have unilaterally abandoned further testing on the grounds of the radiation hazard to future generations .
It could have continued testing to the full on the grounds that the radiation danger was far less than the danger of Communist world domination .
Or it could have chosen to find -- by negotiation -- some way of stopping the tests without loss to national security .
This third choice was in fact made .
With the resumption of Soviet testing and their intransigence at the Geneva talks , however , the hope that this third choice would prove viable has been shaken .
Once again , the United States must choose .
And once again , the choices are much the same .
Only this time around the conditions are different and the choice is far harder .
The first choice , abandoning tests entirely , would not only be unpopular domestically , but would surely be exploited by the Russians .
The second choice , full testing , has become even more risky just because the current Soviet tests have already dangerously contaminated the atmosphere .
The third choice , negotiation , presupposes , as Russian behavior demonstrates , a great deal of wishful thinking to make it appear reasonable .
We take the position , however , that the third choice still remains the only sane one open to us .
It is by no stretch of the imagination a happy choice and the arguments against it as a practical strategy are formidable .
Its primary advantage is that it is a moral choice ; ;
one which , should it fail , will not have contaminated the conscience .
That is the contamination we most fear .
Leaving aside the choice of unilateral cessation of tests as neither sane nor clearly moral , the question must arise as to why resumption of atmospheric tests on our part would not be a good choice .
For that is the one an increasingly large number of prominent Americans are now proposing .
In particular , Governor Nelson Rockefeller has expressed as cogently and clearly as anyone the case for a resumption of atmospheric tests .
Speaking recently in Miami , Governor Rockefeller said that `` to assure the sufficiency of our own weapons in the face of the recent Soviet tests , we are now clearly compelled to conduct our own nuclear tests '' .
Taking account of the fact that such a move on our part would be unpopular in world opinion , he argued that the responsibility of the United States is `` to do , confidently and firmly , not what is popular , but what is right '' .
What was missing in the Governor's argument , as in so many similar arguments , was a premise which would enable one to make the ethical leap from what might be militarily desirable to what is right .
The possibility , as he asserted , that the Russians may get ahead of us or come closer to us because of their tests does not supply the needed ethical premise -- unless , of course , we have unwittingly become so brutalized that nuclear superiority is now taken as a moral demand .
Besides the lack of an adequate ethical dimension to the Governor's case , one can ask seriously whether our lead over the Russians in quality and quantity of nuclear weapons is so slight as to make the tests absolutely necessary .
Recent statements by the President and Defense Department spokesmen have , to the contrary , assured us that our lead is very great .
Unless the Administration and the Defense Department have been deceiving us , the facts do not support the assertion that we are `` compelled '' to resume atmospheric testing .
It is perfectly conceivable that a resumption of atmospheric tests may , at some point in the future , be necessary and even justifiable .
But a resumption does not seem justifiable now .
What we need to realize is that the increasingly great contamination of the atmosphere by the Soviet tests had radically increased our own moral obligations .
We now have to think not only of our national security but also of the future generations who will suffer from any tests we might undertake .
This is an ethical demand which cannot be evaded or glossed over by talking exclusively of weapon superiority or even of the evil of Communism .
Too often in the past Russian tactics have been used to justify like tactics on our part .
There ought to be a point beyond which we will not allow ourselves to go regardless of what Russia does .
The refusal to resume atmospheric testing would be a good start .
Ecumenical hopes
when his Holiness Pope John 23 , first called for an Ecumenical Council , and at the same time voiced his yearning for Christian unity , the enthusiasm among Catholic and Protestant ecumenicists was immediate .
With good reason it appeared that a new day was upon divided Christendom .
But as the more concrete plans for the work of the Council gradually became known , there was a rather sharp and abrupt disappointment on all sides .
The Council we now know will concern itself directly only with the internal affairs of the Church .
As it has turned out , however , the excessive enthusiasm in the first instance and the loss of hope in the second were both wrong responses .
Two things have happened in recent months to bring the Council into perspective : each provides a basis for renewed hope and joy .
First of all , it is now known that Pope John sees the renewal and purification of the Church as an absolutely necessary step toward Christian unity .
Far from being irrelevant to the ecumenical task , the Pontiff believes that a revivified Church is required in order that the whole world may see Catholicism in the best possible light .
Equally significant , Pope John has said that Catholics themselves bear some responsibility for Christian disunity .
A major aim of the Council will be to remove as far as possible whatever in the Church today stands in the way of unity .
Secondly , a whole series of addresses and actions by the Pope and by others show that concern for Christian unity is still very much alive and growing within the Church .
The establishment , by the Holy Father , of a permanent Secretariat for Christian Unity in 1960 was the most dramatic mark of this concern .
The designation of five Catholic theologians to attend the World Council of Churches assembly in New Delhi as `` official '' observers reverses the Church's earlier stand .
The public appeal by the new Vatican Secretary of State , Cardinal Cicognani , for renewed efforts toward Eastern and Western reunion was still another remarkable act .
Nor can one forget Pope John's unprecedented meeting with the Archbishop of Canterbury .
Augustin Cardinal Bea , the director of the Secretariate for Christian Unity , has expressed as directly as anyone the new spirit that pervades the Church's stance toward the Protestant and Orthodox Churches .
Noting all the difficulties that stand in the way of reunion , he has said that they ought not to discourage anyone .
For discouragement , or the temptation to abandon our efforts , `` would show that one placed excessive trust in purely human means without thinking of the omnipotence of God , the irresistible efficacy of prayer , the action of Christ or the power of the Divine Spirit '' .
Can any Christian fail to respond to these words ? ?
The budget deficit
the administration's official budget review , which estimates a 6.9 billion dollar deficit for the current fiscal year , isn't making anyone happy .
Certainly it isn't making the President happy , and he has been doing his apologetic best to explain how the budget got into its unbalanced condition , how he intends to economize wherever he can and how he hopes to do better next year .
We sympathize with Mr. Kennedy , but we feel bound to say that his budget review doesn't please us either , although for very different reasons .
Furthermore , we find his defense of the unbalanced budget more dismaying than reassuring .
In the first place , a large part of the discrepancy between President Eisenhower's estimate of a 1.5 billion dollar surplus for the same period and the new estimate of an almost seven billion dollar deficit is the result of the outgoing President's farewell gift of a political booby-trap to his successor .
The Eisenhower budget was simultaneously inadequate in its provisions and yet extravagant in its projections of revenue to be received .
The rest of the deficit is also easily understood .
Four billion dollars of the spending increase is for defense , an expenditure necessitated by the penny-wise policies of the Eisenhhower Administration , quite apart from the recent crises in Berlin and elsewhere .
Four hundred million dollars of the increase is for the expanded space program , a responsibility similarly neglected by Mr. Eisenhower .
The farm program will cost an additional 1.5 billion , because of unusual weather factors , the Food for Peace program and other new measures .
Anti-recession programs -- aid for the unemployed , their children and for depressed areas -- account for only 900 million of the 6.9 billion dollar deficit .
Our complaint is that in many crucial areas the Kennedy programs are not too large but too small , most seriously in regard to the conventional arms build-up and in aid and welfare measures .
And yet Mr. Kennedy persists in trying to mollify the intransigents of the right with apologies and promises of `` tightening up '' and `` economizing '' .
We wish the President would remember that `` fiscal responsibility '' was the battle-cry of the party that lost the election .
The party that won used to say something about a New Frontier .
Ethics and peace
introduction of the `` dialogue '' principle proved strikingly effective at the thirty-fourth annual meeting of the Catholic Association for International Peace in Washington the last weekend in October .
Two of the principal addresses were delivered by prominent Protestants , and when the speaker was a Catholic , one `` discussant '' on the dais tended to be of another religious persuasion .
Several effects were immediately evident .
Sessions devoted to `` Ethics and Foreign Policy Trends '' , `` Moral Principle and Political Judgment '' , `` Christian Ethics in the Cold War '' and related subjects proved to be much livelier under this procedure than if Catholics were merely talking to themselves .
Usually questions from the floor were directed to the non-Catholic speaker or discussion leader .
In the earlier sessions there was plentiful discussion on the natural law , which Dr. William V. O'Brien of Georgetown University , advanced as the basis for widely acceptable ethical judgments on foreign policy .
That Aristotelean-Thomistic principle experienced a thorough going-over from a number of the participants , but in the end the concept came to reassert itself .
Speakers declared that Protestants often make use of it , if , perhaps , by some other name .
A Lebanese Moslem told about its existence and application in the Islamic tradition as the `` divine law '' , while a C.A.I.P. member who has been working in close association with delegates of the new U.N. nations told of its widespread recognition on the African continent .
The impression was unmistakable that , whatever one may choose to call it , natural law is a functioning generality with a certain objective existence .
Another question that arose was the nature of the dialogue itself .
The stimulus from the confrontation of philosophical systems involving certain differences was undeniable .
It was expected that the comparison of different approaches to ethics would produce a better grasp of each other's positions and better comprehension of one's own .
But a realization that each group has much of substance to learn from the other also developed , and a strong conviction grew that each had insights and dimensions to contribute to ethically acceptable solutions of urgent political issues .
One effect of the spirited give-and-take of these discussions was to focus attention on practical applications and the necessity of being armed with the facts : knowledge of the destructive force of even the tiniest `` tactical '' atomic weapon would have a bearing on judgments as to the advisability of its use -- to defend Berlin , for example ; ;
the pervasive influence of ideology on our political judgments needs to be recognized and taken into due account ; ;
it is necessary to perceive the extent of foreign aid demanded by the Christian imperative .
Everywhere I went in Formosa I asked the same question .
I was searching for an accent of self-delusion or , even , of hypocrisy .
I never found it among any of the Chinese with whom I spoke , though granted they were , almost all , members of the official family who , presumably , harbor official thoughts .
But I questioned , also , professional soldiers , who would not easily be hypnotized by a septuagenarian's dreamy irredentism .
Their answer was : it can be done , and we will do it .
And then I put the question as pointedly as I could directly to Chiang Kai-shek : `` In America '' , I said , `` practically no one believes that you subjectively intend to re-enter the Mainland .
What evidence is there of an objective kind that in fact your government proposes to do just that , and that it can be done '' ? ?
He smiled .
( He always smiles -- at least at visitors , I gather .
He smiled also at a British bloke seated next to me , who asked the most asinine questions .
I recalled sympathetically the Duke's complaint in Browning's `` My Last Duchess '' .
) He smiled , and said a word or two to the interpreter , who turned to me , `` The President wonders where you are going after you leave Taipei '' ? ?
That , I smarted , is a royal rebuff if ever there was one .
I answered the routine question about my itinerary , rather coolly .
Chiang spoke again , this time at greater length .
`` The President says '' , the translator came in , `` that the reason he asked you where you were going is because he hoped you would be visiting other areas in Southeast Asia , and that everywhere you went , you would seek the answer to your question .
He says that if he were to express to you , once again , his own profound determination to go to the Mainland , and his faith that that return is feasible , he would merely sound redundant .
So you yourself must seek these objective data , and come to your own conclusions .
Any information we have here in Taiwan is at your disposal '' .
Fair enough .
What are the relevant data ? ?
For every person on Taiwan , there are sixty in Mainland China .
If the raw population figures are crucially relevant , then it is idle to think of liberation , as idle as to suppose that Poland might liberate Russia .
Relative military manpower ? ?
Less than 60-1 , but at least 6-1 .
The estimates vary widely on the strength of the Chinese army .
Say four million .
The armed forces of Taiwan are at a working strength of about 450,000 , though a reserve potential twice that high is contemplated .
Skill ? ?
Training ? ?
Morale ? ?
It is generally conceded that the Formosan air force is the best by far in Asia , and the army the best trained .
The morale is very high .
Even so , it adds up to impossible odds , except that the question arises , On whose side would the Mainland Chinese army fight ? ?
The miserable people of China , the largest cast ever conscripted to enact an ideological passion play , cannot themselves resist overtly .
They think , perforce , of physical survival : everything else is secondary .
But the army which Mao continues to feed well , where are its sympathies ? ?
The psychological strategists in Taiwan stress the great sense of family , cultivated in China over thousands of years .
It has not been extirpated by ten years of Communist depersonalization .
Every soldier in the army has , somewhere , relatives who are close to starvation .
The soldiers themselves cannot stage a successful rebellion , it is assumed : but will their discontent spread to the officer class ? ?
The immediate families of the generals and the admirals are well fed : a despot does not economize on his generals .
But there are the cousins and aunts and nephews .
Their privations are almost beyond endurance .
In behalf of what ? ?
Leninism-Marxism , as understood by Exegete Mao .
To whom will the generals stay loyal ? ?
There is little doubt if they had a secret ballot , they would vote for food for their family , in place of ideological purity out on the farm .
It is another question whether `` they '' -- or a single general , off in a corner of China , secure for a few ( galvanizing ? ?
) days at least from instant retaliation -- will defy the Party .
But the disposition to rebel is most definitely there .
But there must be a catalytic pressure .
The military in Taiwan believe that the Communists have made two mistakes , which , together , may prove fatal .
The first was the commune program , which will ensure agricultural poverty for years .
The family is largely broken up ; ;
and where it is not , it is left with no residue , and the social meaning of this is enormous .
For it is the family that , in China , has always provided social security for the indigent , the sick , the down-and-out members of the clan .
Now the government must do that ; ;
but the government is left with no reserve granary , under the agricultural system it has ordained .
Thus the government simultaneously undertook the vast burden of social security which had traditionally been privately discharged , and created a national scarcity which has engendered calamitous problems of social security .
The second mistake is Tibet .
Tibet has historically served China as a buffer state .
A friendly state , sometimes only semi-independent , but never hostile .
China never tried to integrate Tibet by extirpating the people's religion and institutions .
Red China is trying to do this , and she is not likely ever to succeed .
Tibet is too vast , the terrain is too difficult .
Tibet may bleed China as Algeria is bleeding France .
These continuing pressures , social , economic and military , are doing much to keep China in a heightening state of tension .
The imposition of yet another pressure , a strong one , from the outside , might cause it to snap .
The planners in Taiwan struck me as realistic men .
They know that they must depend heavily on factors outside their own control .
First and foremost , they depend on the inhuman idiocies of the Communist regime .
On these they feel they can rely .
Secondly , they depend on America's `` moral cooperation '' when the crucial moment arrives .
They hope that if history vouchsafes the West another Budapest , we will receive the opportunity gladly .
I remarked jocularly to the President that the future of China would be far more certain if he would invite a planeload of selected American Liberals to Quemoy on an odd day .
He affected ( most properly ) not to understand my point .
But he -- and all of China -- wears the scars of American indecisiveness , and he knows what an uncertain ally we are .
We have been grand to Formosa itself -- lots of aid , and , most of the time , a policy of support for the offshore islands .
But our outlook has been , and continues to be , defensive .
A great deal depends on the crystallization of Mr. Kennedy's views on the world struggle .
The Free Chinese know that the situation on the Mainland is in flux , and are poised to strike .
There is not anywhere on the frontiers of freedom a more highly mobilized force for liberation .
The moment of truth is the moment of crisis .
During the slow buildup , the essence of a policy or a man is concealed under embroidered details , fine words , strutting gestures .
The crisis burns these suddenly away .
There the truth is , open to eyes that are willing to look .
The moment passes .
New self-deceiving rags are hurriedly tossed on the too-naked bones .
A truth-revealing crisis erupted in Katanga for a couple of days this month , to be quickly smothered by the high pressure verbal fog that is kept on tap for such emergencies .
Before memory , too , clouds over , let us make a note or two of what could be seen .
The measure was instantly taken , as always in such cases , of public men at many levels .
One knows better , now , who has bone and who has jelly in his spine .
But I am here concerned more with policy than with men .
Public men come and go but great issues of policy remain .
Now , everyone knows -- or knew in the week of December 10 -- that something had gone shockingly wrong with American foreign policy .
The United States was engaged in a military attack on a peaceful , orderly people governed by a regime that had proved itself the most pro-Western and anti-Communist within any of the new nations -- the only place in Africa , moreover , where a productive relationship between whites and blacks had apparently been achieved .
Of course the fighting was officially under the auspices of the United Nations .
But in the moment of truth everyone could see that the U.S. was in reality the principal .
The moment simultaneously revealed that in the crisis our policy ran counter to that of all our NATO allies , to the entire Western community .
By our policy the West was -- is -- split .
But the key revelation is not new .
The controlling pattern was first displayed in the Hungary-Suez crisis of November 1956 .
It reappears , in whole or part , whenever a new crisis exposes the reality : in Cuba last spring ( with which the Dominican events of last month should be paired ) ; ;
at the peaks of the nuclear test and the Berlin cycles ; ;
in relation to Laos , Algeria , South Africa ; ;
right now , with almost cartoon emphasis , in the temporally linked complex of Tshombe-Gizenga-Goa-Ghana .
What the moments reveal
This prime element of the truth may be stated as follows : Under prevailing policy , the U.S. can take the initiative against the Right , but cannot take the initiative against the Left .
It makes no difference what part of the world is involved , what form of regime , what particular issue .
The U.S. cannot take the initiative against the Left .
There is even some question whether the U.S. can any longer defend itself against an initiative by the Left .
We can attack Tshombe , but not Gigenza .
No matter that Gizenga is Moscow's man in the Congo .
No matter that it is his troops who rape Western women and eat Western men .
No matter that the Katanga operation is strategically insane in terms of Western interests in Africa .
( Even granted that the Congo should be unified , you don't protect Western security by first removing the pro-Western weight from the power equilibrium .
)
We can force Britain and France out of the Suez , but we cannot so much as try to force the Russian tanks back from Budapest .
We can mass our fleet against the Trujillos , but not against the Castros .
We can vote in the UN against South African apartheid or Portuguese rule in Angola , but we cannot even introduce a motion on the Berlin Wall -- much less , give the simple order to push the Wall down .
We officially receive the anti-French , Moscow-allied Algerian FLN , but we denounce the pro-Europe , anti-Communist OAS as criminal .
In the very week of our war against Katanga , we make a $133 million grant to Kwame Nkrumah , who has just declared his solidarity with the Communist bloc , and is busily turning his own country into a totalitarian dictatorship .
As our planes land the war materiel that kills pro-Western Katangans , we stand supinely bleating while Nehru's troops smash into a five-hundred-year-old district of our NATO ally , Portugal .
What explains this uni-directional paralysis ? ?
It is the consequence of the system of ideas that constitutes the frame of our international -- and in some degree our domestic -- policy .
The Suez-Hungary crisis proves that this system was not invented by the new Administration , but only made more consistent and more active .
Key to the puzzles
Most immediately relevant to these episodes in Goa , Katanga and Ghana , as to the Suez-Hungary crisis before them , is the belief that the main theater of the world drama is the underdeveloped region of Asia , Africa and Latin America .
From this belief is derived the practical orientation of our policy on the `` uncommitted '' ( `` neutralist '' , `` contested '' ) nations , especially on those whose leaders make the most noise -- Nehru , Tito , Nkrumah , Sukarno , Betancourt , etc. .
Our chief aim becomes that of finding favor in neutralist eyes .
If we grasp this orientation as a key , our national conduct in all of the events here mentioned becomes intelligible .
And it becomes clear why in general we cannot take the initiative against the Left .
Broadway
the unoriginals
To write a play , the dramatist once needed an idea plus the imagination , the knowledge of life and the craft to develop it .
Nowadays , more and more , all he needs is someone else's book .
To get started , he does not scan the world about him ; ;
he and his prospective producer just read the bestseller lists .
So far this season , Broadway's premieres have included twice as many adaptations and imports as original American stage plays .
Best from abroad .
Of straight dramas , there are All The Way Home , which owes much of its poetic power to the James Agee novel , A Death In The Family ; ;
The Wall , awkwardly based on the John Hersey novel ; ;
Advise And Consent , lively but shallow theater drawn from the mountainously detailed bestseller ; ;
Face Of A Hero ( closed ) , based on a Pierre Boulle novel .
The only original works attempting to reach any stature : Tennessee Williams' disappointing domestic comedy , Period Of Adjustment , and Arthur Laurents' clever but empty Invitation To A March .
Clearly the most provocative plays are all imported originals -- A Taste Of Honey , by Britain's young ( 19 when she wrote it ) Shelagh Delaney ; ;
Becket , by France's Jean Anouilh ; ;
The Hostage ( closed ) , by Ireland's Brendan Behan .
Among the musicals , Camelot came from T. H. White's The Once And Future King , and novels were the sources of the less than momentous Tenderloin and Do Re Mi .
Wildcat and The Unsinkable Molly Brown were originals , but pretty bad , leaving top honors again to an import -- the jaunty and charmingly French Irma La Douce .
The only other works at least technically original were dreary farces -- Send Me No Flowers ( closed ) , Under The Yum-Yum Tree , Critic's Choice .
In the forthcoming The Conquering Hero and Carnival , Broadway is not even adapting books , but reconverting old movies ( Hail The Conquering Hero and Lili ) .
Dry of life .
Originals are not necessarily good and adaptations are not necessarily bad .
Some memorable plays have been drawn from books , notably Life With Father and Diary Of Anne Frank .
And particularly in the musical field , adaptations have long been the rule , from Die Fledermaus and The Merry Widow to Oklahoma! and My Fair Lady .
As Critic Walter Kerr points out : `` Adaptations , so long as they are good , still qualify as creative '' .
And other defenders invariably argue that , after all , Shakespeare and Moliere were adapters too .
The difference is that the masters took the bare frame of a plot and filled it with their own world ; ;
most modern adapters totally accept the world of a book , squeeze it dry of life , and add only one contribution of their own : stage technique .
The most frequent excuse for the prevalence of unoriginals and tested imports is increasing production expense -- producers cannot afford to take chances .
But that explanation is only partly true .
Off-Broadway , where production is still comparatively cheap , is proving itself only slightly more original .
Laudably enough , it is offering classics and off-beat imports , but last week only one U.S. original was on the boards , Robert D. Hock's stunning Civil War work , Borak .
The real trouble seems to be the failing imagination of U.S. playwrights .
Nightclubs
the Cooch Terpers
He : `` Come with me to the Casbah '' .
She : `` By subway or cab '' ? ?
That exchange was not only possible but commonplace last week in Manhattan , as more and more New Yorkers were discovering 29th Street and Eighth Avenue , where half a dozen small nightclubs with names like Arabian Nights , Grecian Palace and Egyptian Gardens are the American inpost of belly dancing .
Several more will open soon .
Their burgeoning popularity may be a result of the closing of the 52nd Street burlesque joints , but curiously enough their atmosphere is almost always familial -- neighborhood saloons with a bit of epidermis .
The belly boites , with their papier-mache palm trees or hand-painted Ionic columns , heretofore existed mainly on the patronage of Greek and Turkish families .
Customers often bring their children ; ;
between performances , enthusiastic young men from the audience will take the floor to demonstrate their own amateur graces .
Except for the odd uptown sex maniac or an overeager Greek sailor , the people watch in calm absorption .
Small , shirt-sleeved orchestras play in 2/4 or 4/4 time , using guitars , violins , and more alien instruments with names that would open Sesame : the oud , grandfather of the lute ; ;
the darbuka , a small drum with the treelike shape of a roemer glass ; ;
the def , a low-pitched tambourine .
The girls sit quietly with the musicians , wearing prim dresses or plain , secretarial shifts , until it is time to go off to a back room and reappear in the spare uniform of the harem .
Continuum of mankind .
If a dancer is good , she suggests purely and superbly the fundamental mechanics of ancestry and progeny -- the continuum of mankind .
But a great many of what Variety calls the `` Cooch Terpers '' are considerably less cosmic than that .
Each dancer follows the ancient Oriental pattern -- she glides sideways with shoulders motionless while her stomach migrates , and , through breathing and muscle control , she sends ripples across her body to the fingertips and away to the far end of the room .
This is done at varying speeds , ranging from the slow and fast Shifte Telli ( a musical term meaning double strings ) to the fastest , ecstatic Karshilama ( meaning greetings or welcome ) .
The New York dancers are highly eclectic , varying the pattern with all kinds of personal improvisations , back bends or floor crawls .
But they do not strip .
The striptease is crass ; ;
the belly dance leaves more to the imagination .
When a dancer does well , she provokes a quiet bombardment of dollar bills -- although the Manhattan clubs prohibit the more cosmopolitan practice of slipping the tips into the dancers' costumes .
With tips , the girls average between $150 and $200 a week , depending on basic salary .
Although they are forbidden to sit with the customers , the dancers are sometimes proffered drinks , and most of them can bolt one down in mid-shimmy .
The melting pot .
All over the country , belly clubs have never been bigger , especially in Detroit , Boston and Chicago , and even in small towns ; ;
one of the best dancers , a Turkish girl named Semra , works at a roadhouse outside Bristol , Conn. .
The girls are kept booked and moving by several agents , notably voluble , black-bearded Murat Somay , a Manhattan Turk who is the Sol Hurok of the central abdomen .
He can offer nine Turkish girls , plans to import at least 15 more .
But a great many of the dancers are more or less native .
Sometimes they get their initial experience in church haflis , conducted by Lebanese and Syrians in the U.S. , where they dance with just as few veils across their bodies as in nightclubs .
As the girls come to belly dancing from this and other origins , the melting pot has never bubbled more intriguingly .
Some Manhattan examples :
Jemela ( surname : Gerby ) , 23 , seems Hong Kong Oriental but has a Spanish father and an Indian mother , was born in America and educated at Holy Cross Academy and Textile High School , says she learned belly dancing at family picnics .
Serene ( Mrs. Wilson ) , 23 , was born in Budapest and raised in Manhattan .
Daughter of a gypsy mother who taught her to dance , she is one of the few really beautiful girls in the New York Casbah , with dark eyes and dark , waist-length hair , the face of an adolescent patrician and a lithe , glimmering body .
Many belly dancers are married , but Serene is one of the few who will admit it .
Marlene ( surname : Adamo ) , 25 , a Brazilian divorcee who learned the dance from Arabic friends in Paris , now lives on Manhattan's West Side , is about the best belly dancer working the Casbah , loves it so much that she dances on her day off .
She has the small , highly developed body of a prime athlete , and holds in contempt the `` girls who just move sex '' .
Leila ( Malia Phillips ) , 25 , is a Greenwich Village painter of Persianesque miniatures who has red hair that cascades almost to her ankles .
A graduate of Hollywood High School , she likes to imagine herself , as she takes the floor , `` a village girl coming in to a festival '' .
Gloria ( surname : Ziraldo ) , circa 30 , who was born in Italy and once did `` chorus work '' in Toronto , has been around longer than most of the others , wistfully remembers the old days when `` we used to get the seamen from the ships , you know , with big turtleneck sweaters and handkerchiefs and all .
But the ships are very slow now , and we don't get so many sailors any more '' .
The uptown crowd has moved in , and what girl worth her seventh veil would trade a turtleneck sweater for a button-down collar ? ?
A short , tormented span
Of the handful of painters that Austria has produced in the 20th century , only one , Oskar Kokoschka , is widely known in the U.S. .
This state of unawareness may not last much longer .
For ten years a small group of European and U.S. critics has been calling attention to the half-forgotten Austrian expressionist Egon Schiele , who died 42 years ago at the age of 28 .
The critics' campaign finally inspired the first major U.S. exhibit of Schiele's works .
The show has been to Boston and Manhattan , will in time reach Pittsburgh and Minneapolis .
Last week it opened at the J. B. Speed Museum in Louisville , at the very moment that a second Schiele exhibit was being made ready at the Felix Landau gallery in Los Angeles .
Schiele's paintings are anything but pleasant .
His people ( see color ) are angular and knobby-knuckled , sometimes painfully stretched , sometimes grotesquely foreshortened .
His colors are dark and murky , and his landscapes and cityscapes seem swallowed in gloom .
But he painted some of the boldest and most original pictures of his time , and even after nearly half a century , the tense , tormented world he put on canvas has lost none of its fascination .
The devil himself .
The son of a railway stationmaster , Schiele lived most of his childhood in the drowsy Danubian town of Tulln , 14 miles northwest of Vienna .
He was an emotional , lonely boy who spent so much time turning out drawings that he did scarcely any schoolwork .
When he was 15 , his parents finally allowed him to attend classes at the Academy of Fine Arts in Vienna .
Even there he did not last for long .
Cried one professor after a few months of Student Schiele's tantrums and rebellion : `` The devil himself must have defecated you into my classroom '' ! !
For a while his work was influenced deeply by the French impressionists , and by the patterned , mosaic-like paintings of Gustav Klimt , then the dean of Austrian art .
Gradually Schiele evolved a somber style of his own -- and he had few inhibitions about his subject matter .
His pictures were roundly denounced as `` the most disgusting things one has ever seen in Vienna '' .
He himself was once convicted of painting erotica and jailed for 24 days -- the first three of which he spent desperately trying to make paintings on the wall with his own spittle .
For years he wore hand-me-down suits and homemade paper collars , was even driven to scrounging for cigarette butts in Vienna's gutters .
Drafted into the Austrian army , he rebelliously rejected discipline , wangled a Vienna billet , went on painting .
It was not until the last year of his life that he had his first moneymaking show .
Melancholy obsession .
The unabashed sexuality of so many of his paintings was not the only thing that kept the public at bay : his view of the world was one of almost unrelieved tragedy , and it was too much even for morbid-minded Vienna .
He was obsessed by disease and poverty , by the melancholy of old age and the tyranny of lust .
The children he painted were almost always in rags , his portraits were often ruthless to the point of ugliness , and his nudes -- including several self-portraits -- were stringy , contorted and strangely pathetic .
The subject he liked most was the female body , which he painted in every state -- naked , half-dressed , muffled to the ears , sitting primly in a chair , lying tauntingly on a bed or locked in an embrace .
The most surprising thing about the Twenty-second Congress of the Soviet Communist Party is that it is surprising -- perhaps quite as much , in its own way , as the Twentieth Congress of 1956 , which ended with that famous `` secret '' report on Stalin .
The publication last July of the party's Draft Program -- that blueprint for the `` transition to communism '' -- had led the uninitiated to suppose that this Twenty-second Congress would be a sort of apotheosis of the Khrushchev regime , a solemn consecration of ideas which had , in fact , been current over the last three or four years ( i.e. , since the defeat of the `` anti-party group '' ) in all theoretical party journals .
These never ceased to suggest that if , in the eyes of Marx and Lenin `` full communism '' was still a very distant ideal , the establishment of a Communist society had now , under Khrushchev , become an `` immediate and tangible reality '' .
It seems that Khrushchev himself took a very special pride in having made a world-shaking contribution to Marxist doctrine with his Draft Program ( a large part of his twelve-hour speech at the recent Congress was , in fact , very largely a rehash of that interminable document ) .
He and other Soviet leaders responsible for the document were proud of having brought forward some new formulas , such as the early replacement of the dictatorship of the proletariat by an `` All People's State '' , and also of having laid down the lines for a much greater `` democratization '' of the whole hierarchy of Soviets , starting with the Supreme Soviet itself .
Their plan for rotation of leaders promised a salutary blow at `` bureaucracy '' and would enable `` the people '' to take a more direct and active part in running the country .
Also , elections would be more democratic ; ;
there might even be two or more candidates for voters to choose from .
No doubt , there was still a lot in the Draft Program -- and in Khrushchev's speech -- which left many points obscure .
Was it the party's intention , for example , to abolish gradually the kolkhoz system and replace it by uniformly wage-earning kolkhozes , i.e. , state farms ( which were , moreover , to be progressively `` urbanized '' ) ? ?
As we know , the Soviet peasant today still very largely thrives on being able to sell the produce grown on his private plot ; ;
and it is still very far from certain how valid the party's claim is that in `` a growing number of kolkhozes '' the peasants are finding it more profitable , to surrender their private plots to the kolkhoz and to let the latter be turned into something increasingly like a state farm .
If one follows the reports of the Congress , one finds that there still seems considerable uncertainty in the minds of the leaders themselves about what exactly to do in this matter .
The Draft Program was interesting in other respects , too .
It contained , for example , a number of curious admissions about the peasants , who enjoy no sickness benefits , no old-age pensions , no paid holidays ; ;
they still benefit far less than the `` other '' 50 per cent of the nation from that `` welfare state '' which the Soviet Union so greatly prides itself on being .
Over all these fairly awkward problems Khrushchev was to skate rather lightly ; ;
and , though he repeated , over and over again , the spectacular figures of industrial and agricultural production in 1980 , the `` ordinary '' people in Russia are still a little uncertain as to how `` communism '' is really going to work in practice , especially in respect of food .
Would agriculture progress as rapidly as industry ? ?
This was something on which K. himself seemed to have some doubts ; ;
for he kept on threatening that he would `` pull the ears '' of those responsible for agricultural production .
And , as we know , the Virgin Lands are not producing as much as Khrushchev had hoped .
One cannot but wonder whether these doubts about the success of Khrushchev's agricultural policy have not at least something to do with one of the big surprises provided by this Congress -- the obsessive harping on the crimes and misdeeds of the `` anti-party group '' -- Molotov , Malenkov , Kaganovich and others -- including the eighty-year-old Marshal Voroshilov .
Molotov , in particular , is being charged with all kinds of sins -- especially with wanting to cut down free public services , to increase rents and fares ; ;
in fact , with having been against all the more popular features of the Khrushchev `` welfare state '' .
The trouble with all these doctrinal quarrels is that we hear only one side of the story : what , in the secret councils of the Kremlin , Molotov had really proposed , we just don't know , and he has had no chance to reply .
But one cannot escape the suspicion that all this non-stop harping on the misdeeds of the long liquidated `` anti-party '' group would be totally unnecessary if there were not , inside the party , some secret but genuine opposition to Khrushchev on vital doctrinal grounds , on the actual methods to be employed in the `` transition to communism '' and , last but not least , on foreign policy .
The whole problem of `` peaceful coexistence and peaceful competition '' with the capitalist world is in the very center of this Congress .
Mikoyan declared :
`` Molotov altogether rejects the line of peaceful coexistence , reducing this concept merely to the state of peace or rather , the absence of war at a given moment , and to a denial of the possibility of averting a world war .
His views , in fact , coincide with those of foreign enemies of peaceful coexistence , who look upon it merely as a variant of the `` cold war '' or of an `` armed peace '' .
One cannot help wondering whether Molotov and the rest of the `` anti-party group '' are not being used as China's whipping-boys by Khrushchev and his faithful followers .
For something , clearly , has gone very , very seriously wrong in Soviet-Chinese relations , which were never easy , and have now deteriorated .
The effect of Chou En-lai's clash with Khrushchev , together with the everlasting attacks on Molotov & Co. , has shifted the whole attention of the world , including that of the Soviet people , from the `` epoch-making '' twenty-year program to the present Soviet-Chinese conflict .
Not only , as we know , did Chou En-lai publicly treat Khrushchev's attack on Albania as `` something that we cannot consider as a serious Marxist-Leninist approach '' to the problem ( i.e. , as something thoroughly dictatorial and `` undemocratic '' ) , but the Albanian leaders went out of their way to be openly abusive to Khrushchev , calling him a liar , a bully , and so on .
It is extremely doubtful that the handful of Albanians who call themselves Communists could have done this without the direct approval of their Chinese friends .
The big question is whether , in the name of a restored Chinese-Soviet solidarity , the Chinese will choose to persuade the Albanians to present their humble apologies to Khrushchev -- or get rid of Enver Hoxa .
These seem about the only two ways in which the `` unhappy incident '' can now be closed .
But Albania is merely a symptom of a real malaise between China and Russia .
There are other symptoms .
Khrushchev , for all his bombastic prophecies about the inevitable decay of capitalism , is genuinely favorable to `` peaceful coexistence '' and would like , above all , the Berlin and German problems to be settled peacefully ; ;
he knows that he was never more popular than at the time of the Russo-American `` honeymoon '' of 1959 .
But it seems that pressures against him are coming from somewhere -- in the first place from China , but perhaps also from that `` China Lobby '' which , I was assured in Moscow nearly two years ago , exists on the quiet inside the party .
To these people , solidarity and unity with China should be the real basis of Russia's future policy .
And the Chinese , as the Albanian incident shows , have strong suspicions that Khrushchev is anxious to secure a `` shameful '' peace with the West .
The fact that China ( which is obsessed by Formosa -- to Khrushchev a very small matter ) should be supported by North Korea and North Vietnam is highly indicative .
And one cannot but wonder whether Marshal Malinovsky , who was blowing hot and cold , exalting peace but also almost openly considering the possibility of preventive war against the West , wasn't trying to keep the Chinese quiet .
And this brings us inevitably to the 30- or 50-megaton bomb .
Was not this dropped primarily in order to `` appease '' the Chinese -- especially after `` Khrushchev's `` humiliating '' surrender to the West in canceling the German peace-treaty deadline of December 31 ? ?
What does it all add up to ? ?
Indications are that Khrushchev ( and , with him , the bulk of the Soviet people ) favor peaceful coexistence and ( with the exception of Berlin ) the maintenance of the status quo in the world .
The Chinese , North Vietnamese and North Koreans , on the other hand , feel that , militarily , Russia is strong enough to support them in the `` just wars of liberation '' they would like to embark on before long : with China attacking Formosa and the North Koreans and North Vietnamese liberating the southern half of their respective countries .
Perhaps Khrushchev is in a more difficult position than any since 1957 , when the `` anti-party group '' nearly liquidated him .
He seems strong enough inside the party to cope with any internal opposition ; ;
but if he is up against China's crusading spirit in world affairs , he is going to be faced with the most agonizing choice in his life .
He may support China ( but he won't ) ; ;
he may break with China ( which would be infernally difficult and perhaps disastrous ) , or he may succeed , by all kinds of dangerous concessions , in persuading China to be patient .
The next days may show where things stand .
On a misty Sunday morning last month , a small band of militant anti-Communists called the Minutemen held maneuvers in a foggy field about fifteen miles east of here .
Eleven men , a woman and a teen-age boy tramped over cold , damp , fog-enshrouded ground during a two-hour field drill in the problems of guerrilla warfare .
To the average American , this must sound like an incredible tale from a Saturday night TV movie .
But to the Minutemen , this is a serious business .
They feel that the United States is engaged in a life-and-death struggle with communism for survival and world supremacy .
They feel that World War 3 , has already begun , and they are setting themselves up as a `` last line of defense '' against the Communist advance .
Their national leader , Robert Bolivar DePugh of Norborne , Mo. , says the Minutemen believe that guerrilla tactics are best suited to defeat the Red onslaught .
In their maneuvers last month , they wore World War 2 , camouflage garb and helmets , and carried unloaded M-1 rifles .
The maneuvers were held `` in secret '' after a regional seminar for the Minutemen , held in nearby Shiloh , Ill. , had been broken up the previous day by deputy sheriffs , who had arrested regional leader Richard Lauchli of Collinsville , Ill. , and seized four operative weapons , including a Browning machine gun , two Browning automatic rifles and an M-4 rifle .
Undismayed by this contretemps , a small band of the faithful gathered at Lauchli's home at 6:30 A.M. the next day , put on their uniforms , and headed for a farm several miles away .
A 60 mm. mortar and a 57 mm. recoilless rifle owned by Lauchli were brought along .
The mortar was equipped with dummy shells and the recoilless rifle was deactivated .
After a tortuous drive in an open truck and a World War 2 , army jeep down soggy trails , the band arrived at a small clearing squeezed between a long , low ridge and a creek-filled gully .
Here the two leaders , DePugh and Lauchli , hastened to put the group through its paces .
The Minutemen were instructed in the use of terrain for concealment .
They were shown how to advance against an enemy outpost atop a cleared ridge .
They practiced movement behind a smoke screen laid by smoke grenades ; ;
and they attempted a skirmish line of advance against a camouflaged enemy encampment .
Eleven dummy rounds were fired by Lauchli in a demonstration of rapid-fire mortar shooting .
Mrs. DePugh , the mother of five children and an active member of her husband's organization , participated in all the exercises .
There were no `` casualties '' , but the `` guerrillas '' admitted to being `` a little tired '' when the leaders called a halt at 9 A.M. to enable out-of-town members to catch a plane .
Tenure as criterion
I would like to add one more practical reform to those mentioned by Russell Kirk ( Dec. 16 ) .
It has to do with teachers' salaries and tenure .
Next September , after receiving a degree from Yale's Master of Arts in Teaching Program , I will be teaching somewhere -- that much is guaranteed by the present shortage of mathematics teachers .
I will also be underpaid .
The amazing thing is that this too is caused by the dearth of teachers .
Teaching is at present a sellers' market ; ;
as a result buyers , the public , must be satisfied with second-rate teachers .
But this is not the real problem ; ;
the rub arises from the fact that teachers are usually paid on the basis of time served rather than quality .
Hence all teachers , good and bad , who have been teaching for a given number of years are paid the same salary .
I am firmly convinced that considering the average quality of teachers in this country , the profession is grossly overpaid .
It follows that teachers as a group cannot expect any marked salary increases ; ;
there is a limit to how much the public will pay for shoddy performance .
The only hope which good teachers have for being paid their due is to stop dragging the dead weight of poor teachers up the economic ladder with them .
The only hope which the public has for getting good teachers is to pay teachers on the basis of merit rather than tenure .
Here , as in all sectors of the economy , quality and justice are both dependent on the right of the individual to deal directly with his employer if he so chooses .
Loss of initiative
On the eve of the `` great debate '' on the proposal to give the President broad powers to make across-the-board tariff concessions which could practically bring us into the Atlantic Community , we should face the alternatives on this proposition .
What we will be sacrificing in any such arrangement will be our power to be selective which is contained in the reciprocal trade principle under which we now operate .
Without this power we lay open any American industry which the Europeans may find it economically profitable to destroy to the will of others .
It is this loss of initiative in how we conduct our economy which may lead to the loss of initiative in how we conduct our political affairs .
A brief for the negative
I disagree with Mr. Burnham's position on the Common Market ( Nov. 18 ) as a desirable organization for us to join .
For him to ignore the political consequences involved in an Atlantic Union of this kind is difficult to understand .
The pressure for our entry to the Common Market is mounting and we will proceed towards this amalgamated trade union by way of a purely `` economic thoroughfare '' , or garden path , with the political ramifications kept neatly in the background .
The appeal is going to be to the pocketbook and may be very convincing to those who do not see its relation to political and legal , as well as economic , self-rule .
In entering this union we will be surrendering most , if not all , of our economic autonomy to international bodies such as the Atlantic Institute ( recently set up ) or the O.E.C.D. , I.M.F. and others .
To think that we can merely relinquish our economic autonomy without giving up our political or legal autonomy is wishful thinking .
If it is not enough that all of our internationalist One Worlders are advocating that we join this market , I refer you to an article in the New York Times' magazine section ( Nov. 12 , 1961 ) , by Mr. Eric Johnston , entitled `` We Must Join The Common Market '' .
He says : `` It has swept aside petty nationalisms , age-old rivalries , and worn-out customs '' .
Referring to Britain , he says , `` We see a nation that traditionally values sovereignty above all else willing to give up its economy , placing this authority in Continental hands '' .
Since the goal of our international planners is a World Government , this Atlantic Community would mark a giant step in that direction for , once American economic autonomy is absorbed , a larger grouping is a question of time .
Frankly , it is being very cleverly done for , in a sense , they have us over a barrel .
Listen to what Mr. Johnston has to say : `` Consider the savage wounds that isolationism would inflict .
We would lose our export markets and deny ourselves the imports we need .
We would be crippled by reduced output , industrial decline , widespread unemployment '' .
But the solution to this dilemma is not the incorporation of the United States into an Atlantic Community or `` economic empire '' , but merely what libertarians like Henry Hazlitt and Ludwig Von Mises have been arguing for years : an end to government regulations , an end to government competition in industry , and a realistic depreciation allowance for industry .
Create a free market here , give us a sound , debt-free money system , and we'll compete with anyone , Europe and Asia combined .
In short , get this governmental monstrosity off our backs and we won't have to worry about European competition or Communism either .
If we want to preserve our sovereignty , this is the way to do it ; ;
not acquiesce to an international planning board .
If we go into this Common Market , we might just as well stop talking about Constitutional guarantees , Connally Amendments or , for that matter , conservatism in general .
We welcome this able brief for the negative as part of a many-sided discussion of the Atlantic Common Market which JNR will be continuing in our pages .
-- ed. .
Mental telepathy ? ?
The Peiping Chinese were the only major silver seller in the world markets who stopped selling the metal on Monday morning , November 27 , anticipating by two days the announcement of the U.S. Treasury that the pegged offering price will be removed .
A professor and the army
In 1954 I was drafted and after serving two years honorably on Active Duty I was not required to participate in any further Army Reserve activities .
Now , more than five years later , I cannot in any realistic sense be called a trained soldier .
But , in spite of this , I , at present a man 31 years of age and a College Professor , have been recalled `` by direction of the President '' to report on November 25th to Fort Devens , Massachusetts , for another twelve months of Active Duty as an Sp 4 ( the equivalent of a PFC ) .
Today , seven years after the date of my initial induction as a draftee , I am Assistant Professor of Philosophy and Science at St. Michael's College .
For , after leaving the Army in 1956 , I spent five years in Graduate School first at Boston College and then at the University of Toronto .
This time , added to that which I had already spent in school prior to my induction in 1954 , makes a total of twenty-two ( 22 ) years of education .
The possibility of recall into the Army is part of the price that a modern American has to pay for the enviable heritage of liberty which he enjoys .
With this no loyal citizen can quarrel .
However , it seems axiomatic that the government has an obligation `` to exercise its mandate reasonably , equitably and with full regard for the disruptions which it inevitably causes '' .
In my own case , I submit that such reasonable and fair exercise is woefully lacking .
Taken back into the Army now as an Sp 4 , I am leaving 110 college students whose teacher I am .
( A wry sidelight on this is that most of my students have deferments from the draft in order to attend my classes .
) At this late date , it is impossible for St. Michael's College to find a suitable replacement for me .
Even apart from the fact that now at the age of 31 my personal life is being totally disrupted for the second time for no very compelling reason -- I cannot help looking around at the black leather jacket brigades standing idly on the street corners and in the taverns of every American city and asking myself if our society has gone mad .
Mercenary : term of honor ? ?
In news broadcasts I consistently hear the foreign volunteers fighting in the Katanga Army referred to as mercenaries .
This confuses me no end .
If the Hessian troops sent here willy-nilly by the Hessian Government to fight for England in the 1770's were mercenaries , what shall we call the UN troops sent to the Congo willy-nilly by their governments to fight for the United Nations ? ?
If the UN troops are not mercenaries then the Hessians were not mercenaries either .
And if the foreigners fighting in the Katanga Army are mercenaries then Lafayette and Von Steuben were mercenaries too , as were also the members of the Lafayette Escadrille in the early part of World War 1 , and of Chennault's Flying Tigers in the early days of World War 2 .
Modern postal slogan
It doesn't take a Gore Vidal to tell you what's wrong with Cherokee Textile's slogan ( Pitney-Bowes Objects '' , July 1 ) .
It's an eighteenth-century negative , man ! !
Suggest the following twenty-first-century amendment : By moving the term `` Republic '' to lower case , substituting the modern phrase , `` move ahead '' for the stodgy `` keep '' , and by using the Postmaster's name on every envelope ( in caps , of course , with the `` in spite '' as faded as possible ) , the slogan cannot fail .
The impending death of Pope
In the issue of March 5 , 1960 you had an excellent editorial which said :
`` On trial in Jakarta for having flown for the Indonesian anti-Communist insurgents , U.S. pilot Alan Lawrence Pope boldly told the court that in supporting the freedom fighters , he was actually defending the sovereignty and independence of Indonesia .
Facing a prosecution which has demanded the death penalty , he said : ' I have participated in the war against Communism in Korea and at Dienbienphu , and I have helped in the evacuation of North Vietnamese to the free world .
I have done all this for the freedom of the individuals concerned and also for the states which have been threatened by Communist domination .
At least in Indonesia , Khrushchev found an American proud to be at total war with Communism '' ! !
Since then nothing has happened to save the life of Pope .
I found recently a very small article in the New York Times :
`` U.S. Flier Loses Plea .
Indonesia Court Upholds Pope's Death Sentence .
-- Indonesia Military Supreme Court has confirmed the death sentence passed on Alan Lawrence Pope , an American pilot .
Pope was convicted last year of having aided North Celebes rebels by flying bombing missions .
He has been in prison since May , 1958 , when his aircraft was shot down over Moluccas .
He may appeal to President Sukarno for clemency '' .
As we see , Pope may appeal to President Sukarno , Khrushchev's friend , for clemency .
This possibility is anything but reassuring .
The Eleanor Roosevelt Tractor Committee acts on behalf of the Cuban freedom fighters .
But who will act now and immediately to save the life of Alan Pope ? ?
Are tractors available for him ? ?
Does anybody think of saving the life of an anti-Communist American pilot ? ?
An analogy
A few days before I saw your mention of what Texas Liberals were doing to promote `` Louis Capet '' ( The Week '' , June 3 ) , another analogy had occurred to me .
Consider this table : 1 .
Louis 14 , -- Aj .
`` With no strong men and no parliament to dispute his will , he was the government '' .
2 .
Regency -- Truman .
`` A ' dust-settling ' period of decadence and decline '' .
3 .
Louis 15 , -- Eisenhower .
`` He opened his mouth , said little , and thought not at all '' .
4 .
Louis 16 , -- Kennedy .
`` Not completely virtuous , but completely incompetent '' .
And Marie Antoinette -- Jacqueline Bouvier .
`` The beautiful and light-hearted '' .
5 .
French Revolution -- Conservative Revolution ? ?
Truly , that Liberals should choose Louis 14 , as a bogey-symbol of conservatism is grotesquely ironic , considering the Louis 14 , character of their Grand Monarque , FDR : not only in his accretion of absolute power and personal deification , ( le roi gouverne par lui meme ) , but in the disastrous effects of his spending and war policies .
In defeating `` Louis Capet '' , John Tower's victory in Texas signals , once again , the end of the divine right of Liberalism .
Confrontation
It seems to me that N.C. , in his editorial `` Confrontation '' ( SR , Mar. 25 ) , has hit upon the real problem that bothers all of us in a complex world : how do we retain our personal relationship with those who suffer ? ?
This affects us all intimately , and can leave us hopeless in the face of widespread distress .
I know of no other solution than the one N.C. proposes -- to do what we can for each sufferer as he confronts us , hoping that this will spread beyond him to others at some time and some place .
Never have I seen this expressed so clearly and so sympathetically .
Thank you for the illustrated editorial `` Confrontation '' .
It is both great writing and profound religion .
N.C. has said something important so well that this preacher will many times be tempted to quote the whole piece .
I feel that N.C. hit the very core of our existence in the editorial `` Confrontation '' .
Personally , it meant a great deal ; ;
my only hope is that it will be shared by many , many others .
`` Confrontation '' should fortify us all , whether in Southeast Asia or the U.S. .
Congratulations to N.C. for successfully delving into the heart of the problems that face the Peace Corps .
I concur that it is necessary for Americans to have a confrontation of the situation existing in foreign lands .
It would be heartbreaking to see idealism , and hence effective leadership , thwarted by the poverty and hardship which young Americans will run into .
The editorial `` Confrontation '' was certainly direct in its appeal to those of us living here in America .
I personally gained strength from it .
Thanks for continuing to capture the attention and uncover so many areas of need in this amazing world .
N.C.'s editorial `` Confrontation '' is a stunning piece of writing .
I would hope that Sargent Shriver will encourage everyone entering the Peace Corps to read it .
The important people to humanity are not the Khrushchevs and the Castros but the Schweitzers and the Dooleys , and the others like them whose names we will never know .
Editor's note : Reprints of `` Confrontation '' will be included among the material to be distributed to members of the Peace Corps .
A Peace Corps official described the editorial as `` precisely the message we need to communicate to the men and women who will soon be Peace Corps volunteers '' .
Improper Bostonian ? ?
F. L. Lucas's article in SR's April 1 issue seemed to be a very fair and objective analysis of the New English Bible .
I certainly hope this will be the impression left in the minds of readers , rather than the comment by Cleveland Amory in his first of the month column .
It is blind , fundamentalist dogmatism to say , `` Messing around with the King James version seems to us a perilous sport at best '' .
Facts in focus
Lester Markel is on the right track in his article `` Interpretation Of Interpretation '' ( SR , Mar. 11 ) .
The current stereotype of straight news reporting was probably invaluable in protecting the press and its readers from pollution by that combination of doctored fact , fancy , and personal opinion called yellow journalism which flourished in this country more than a generation ago .
We don't need this type of protection any more .
The public is now armed with sophistication and numerous competing media .
Besides , there are no longer enough corruptible journalists about .
The accepted method of writing news has two major liabilities .
First , it does not communicate .
A reporter restricted to the competing propaganda statements of both sides in a major labor dispute , for instance , is unable to tell his readers half of what he knows about the causes of the dispute .
Second , it subjects the news to distortion by the unscrupulous .
The charges by the late junior Senator from Wisconsin not only destroyed innocent people but misled the nation .
Yet the press was powerless to put these charges in perspective in its news columns .
Despite several years of front-page stories , the average citizen was unable to get a complete picture of McCarthy until he saw on the television screen what the reporters had been seeing all along but had no effective way of communicating .
The Senator had boxed them in with their own restrictions .
It seems to me the time has come for the American press to start experimenting with ways of reporting the news that will do a better job of communicating and will be less subject to abuse by those who have learned how to manipulate the present stereotype to serve their own ends .
The objective should be to provide a method of getting into print a higher percentage than is now possible of the relevant information in the possession of reporters and editors .
Southern California blackout
I would like to see you devote some space in an early issue to the news blackout concerning President Kennedy's activities , so far as Southern California is concerned .
You have on more than one occasion praised the idea of a televised press conference and the chance it gives the people to form intelligent opinions .
To begin with , the all-powerful Los Angeles Times does not publish a transcript of these press conferences .
I am sure that they did when Eisenhower was President .
Next , because of the time differential , the conferences come on the networks during the middle of the day .
Up until now , the networks have grudgingly run half-hour tapes at 5 P.M. or sometimes 7 or 10:30 P.M. .
Even then , a few of the `` less interesting '' questions are edited out and glibly summarized by a commentator .
However , last night the tapes were not run at all during the evening hours and all we got on TV were a few snatches which Douglas Edwards and Huntley and Brinkley could squeeze into their programs .
This is no criticism of them , as they obviously cannot get a half-hour program into a fifteen-minute news summary .
The radio stations did run `` transcripts '' ( I thought ) during the evening hours .
However , by comparing the TV snatches , two different radio station re-runs , and the censored Los Angeles Times version , I found that the radio stations had edited out questions ( ABC removed the one regarding Laos ) or even a paragraph out of the middle of the President's answer .
I am interested to know he is getting mail from all over the country about the `` abuse '' he is being subjected to .
We out here don't see enough of the conference to know he is being abused .
I don't know if this is the situation in other parts of the country ; ;
apparently it is not .
It also happened with the Inauguration , which was not re-run at all during the evening hours , and I wrote to the TV editor of the Times .
He did mention in his column the fact that he had received many letters about this and he himself did not understand the networks and the independent local stations' not doing this -- but nothing happened .
Can you bring the networks' attention to this ? ?
For a college of propaganda
I was interested in James Webb Young's Madison Avenue column in which he raised the question : `` Do We Need a College of Propaganda '' ? ?
( SR , Feb. 11 ) .
In my estimation , we definitely do ; ;
and the sad part of it is that we had one , which was rounding into excellent shape , and we let it disintegrate and die .
During the war , we set up schools for the teaching of psychological warfare , which included the teaching of propaganda , both black and white and the various shades of grey in between .
We had a couple of schools in this country , the principal one being on the Marshall Field estate out in Lloyd's Neck .
There were also a couple in Canada , and several in England .
The English schools preceded ours , and by the time we got into it they had learned a lot about the techniques of propaganda and its teaching .
Four of us here in the United States attended , first as students , then as instructors , almost every one of these schools , in England , Canada , and the United States .
We set up the Lloyd's Neck school , worked out its curriculum , and taught there .
Toward the end of the war , we really felt that we had learned something about propaganda and how to teach it .
When the end did come , and the schools were disbanded and abandoned , we felt and hoped that the machinery of psychological warfare would not be allowed to rust .
We hoped that its practitioners and teachers might be put on some sort of reserve list and called back for refresher courses each year or so .
Alas , no such thing happened .
There apparently is no school of propaganda or psychological warfare .
A study at the Pentagon and at the service academies revealed that nothing was being done there .
And not one of the four men who attended all the schools has ever been called on to apply any of his knowledge in any way .
Congratulations on the article `` Do We Need A College Of Propaganda '' ? ?
This is one of the most constructive suggestions made in this critical field in years , and I certainly hope it sparks some action .
Let the media clean house , too
many of us in public relations were flattered that Richard L. Tobin chose to devote his editorial in the March 11 Communications Supplement to the merger of the Public Relations Society of America and the American Public Relations Association .
Snow storm
I was surprised and sorry to find in your issue of March 4 a long and detailed attack upon a book that had not yet been published .
Whether in his forthcoming book C. P. Snow commits the errors of judgment and of fact with which your heavily autobiographical critic charged him is important .
One should be able to get hold of the book at once .
But the attack was made from an advance copy .
If this practice should take root and spread , the man who submits a manuscript to a publisher will find himself reviewed before he is accepted and publication will become a sort of post-mortem formality .
Editor's note : Sir Robert Watson-Watt wrote , on page 50 of SR Research for 4 March 1961 : :
`` I have read an advance copy of the Snow book which is to be titled , ' Science And Government .
Until the work actually appears I am not privileged to analyze it publicly in detail .
But I have compared its text with already published commentaries on the 1960 series of Godkin lectures at Harvard , from which the book was derived , and I can with confidence challenge the gist of C. P. Snow's incautious tale '' .
Watson-Watt's remarks in SR did not then , constitute a review of the book but a rebuttal to the Godkin Lectures .
Representatives of Harvard University Press , which is publishing the book this month of April , recognize and freely acknowledge that they invited such reaction by allowing Life magazine to print an excerpt from the book in advance of the book's publication date .
The text of the book leaves a somewhat milder impression than the prepublication excerpt .
Sir Robert Watson-Watt's `` rebuttal '' of Sir Charles Snow's Godkin Lectures is marred throughout by too forceful a desire to defend Lindemann and apparently himself from Sir Charles' supposed falsehoods while stating those `` falsehoods '' in an unclear incoherent argument .
The article presents the reader with an absurdity at its beginning .
It calls the conclusion admitted valid by `` historians and military strategists alike '' a `` perverted conclusion .
Nonsense '' .
It submits an enthusiastic , impressionistic conception of Lindemann contributing another aspect of the man , but on no more authoritative basis than Sir Charles' account .
We are left to choose between the two Lindemanns .
The only fact that holds any weight in the article is the result of the tea party .
But we are to believe that Lindemann actively supported radar outside the Tizard Committee , and dissembling , discounted it inside ? ?
If so , I would lean to Sir Charles' conception of the man .
I think it was a grave error to print the article at this time .
To the unfortunate people unable to attend the Godkin lectures it casts an unjustifiable aura of falsehood over the book which may dissuade some people from reading it .
It is not news that Nathan Milstein is a wizard of the violin .
Certainly not in Orchestra Hall where he has played countless recitals , and where Thursday night he celebrated his 20th season with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra , playing the Brahms Concerto with his own slashing , demon-ridden cadenza melting into the high , pale , pure and lovely song with which a violinist unlocks the heart of the music , or forever finds it closed .
There was about that song something incandescent , for this Brahms was Milstein at white heat .
Not the noblest performance we have heard him play , or the most spacious , or even the most eloquent .
Those would be reserved for the orchestra's great nights when the soloist can surpass himself .
This time the orchestra gave him some superb support fired by response to his own high mood .
But he had in Walter Hendl a willing conductor able only up to a point .
That is , when Mr. Milstein thrust straight to the core of the music , sparks flying , bow shredding , violin singing , glittering and sometimes spitting , Mr. Hendl could go along .
But Mr. Hendl does not go straight to any point .
He flounders and lets music sprawl .
There was in the Brahms none of the mysterious and marvelous alchemy by which a great conductor can bring soloist , orchestra and music to ultimate fusion .
So we had some dazzling and memorable Milstein , but not great Brahms .
The concert opened with another big romantic score , Schumann's Overture to `` Manfred '' , which suffered fate , this time with orchestral thrusts to the Byronic point to keep it afloat .
Hindemith's joust with Weber tunes was a considerably more serious misfortune , for it demands transluscent textures , buoyant rhythms , and astringent wit .
It got the kind of scrambled , coarsened performance that can happen to best of orchestras when the man with the baton lacks technique and style .
Bayreuth next summer
The Bayreuth Festival opens July 23 with a new production of `` Tannhaeuser '' staged by Wieland Wagner , who is doing all the operas this time , and conducted by Wolfgang Sawallisch .
Sawalisch also conducts `` The Flying Dutch '' , opening July 24 .
`` Parsifal '' follows July 25 , with Hans Knappertsbusch conducting , and he also conducts `` Die Meistersinger '' , to be presented Aug. 8 and 12 .
The `` Ring '' cycles are July 26 , 27 , 28 and 30 , and Aug. 21 , 22 , 23 and 25 .
Rudolf Kempe conducts .
No casts are listed , but Lotte Lehmann sent word that the Negro soprano , Grace Bumbry , will sing Venus in `` Tannhaeuser '' .
Remember how by a series of booking absurdities Chicago missed seeing the Bolshoi Ballet ? ?
Remember how by lack of two big theaters Chicago missed the first visit of the Royal Danish Ballet ? ?
Well , now we have two big theaters .
But barring a miracle , and don't hold your breath for it , Chicago will not see the Leningrad-Kirov Ballet , which stems from the ballet cradle of the Maryinsky and is one of the great companies of the world .
Before you let loose a howl saying we announced its coming , not once but several times , indeed we did .
The engagement was supposed to be all set for the big theater in McCormick Place , which Sol Hurok , ballet booker extraordinary , considers the finest house of its kind in the country -- and of course he doesn't weep at the capacity , either .
It was all set .
Allied Arts Corporation first listed the Chicago dates as Dec. 4 thru 10 .
Later the Hurok office made it Dec. 8 thru 17 , a nice , long booking for the full repertory .
But if you keep a calendar of events , as we do , you noticed a conflict .
Allied Arts had booked Marlene Dietrich into McCormick Place Dec. 8 and 9 .
Something had to give .
Not La Dietrich .
Allied Arts then notified us that the Kirov would cut short its Los Angeles booking , fly here to open Nov. 28 , and close Dec. 2 .
Shorter booking , but still a booking .
We printed it .
A couple of days later a balletomane told me he had telephoned Allied Arts for ticket information and was told `` the newspapers had made a mistake '' .
So I started making some calls of my own .
These are the results .
The Kirov Ballet is firmly booked into the Shrine Auditorium , Los Angeles , Nov. 21 thru Dec. 4 .
Not a chance of opening here Nov. 28 -- barring that miracle .
Then why not the juicy booking Hurok had held for us ? ?
Well , Dietrich won't budge from McCormick Place .
Then how about the Civic Opera House ? ?
Well , Allied Arts has booked Lena Horne there for a week starting Dec. 4 .
Queried about the impasse , Allied Arts said : `` Better cancel the Kirov for the time being .
It's all up in the air again '' .
So the Kirov will fly back to Russia , minus a Chicago engagement , a serious loss for dance fans -- and for the frustrated bookers , cancellation of one of the richest bookings in the country .
Will somebody please reopen the Auditorium ? ?
Paintings and drawings by Marie Moore of St. Thomas , Virgin Islands , are shown thru Nov. 5 at the Meadows Gallery , 3211 Ellis Av. , week days , 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. , Sundays 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. , closed Mondays .
An exhibition of Evelyn Cibula's paintings will open with a reception Nov. 5 at the Evanston Community center , 828 Davis St. .
It will continue all month .
Abstractions and semi-abstractions by Everett McNear are being exhibited by the University Gallery of Notre Dame until Nov. 5 .
In the line of operatic trades to cushion the budget , the Dallas Civic Opera will use San Francisco's new Leni Bauer-Ecsy production of `` Lucia Di Lammermoor '' this season , returning the favor next season when San Francisco uses the Dallas `` Don Giovanni '' , designed by Franco Zeffirelli .
H E. Bates has scribbled a farce called `` Hark , Hark , The Lark '' ! !
It is one of the most entertaining and irresponsible novels of the season .
If there is a moral lurking among the shenanigans , it is hard to find .
Perhaps the lesson we should take from these pages is that the welfare state in England still allows wild scope for all kinds of rugged eccentrics .
Anyway , a number of them meet here in devastating collisions .
One is an imperial London stockbroker called Jerebohm .
Another is a wily countryman called Larkin , whose blandly boisterous progress has been chronicled , I believe , in earlier volumes of Mr. Bates' comedie humaine .
What's up now ? ?
Well , Jerebohm and his wife Pinkie have reached the stage of affluence that stirs a longing for the more atrociously expensive rustic simplicities .
They want to own a junior-grade castle , or a manor house , or some modest little place where Shakespeare might once have staged a pageant for Great Elizabeth and all her bearded courtiers .
They are willing to settle , however , in anything that offers pheasants to shoot at and peasants to work at .
And of course Larkin has just the thing they want .
Splendor by sorcery
It's a horror .
The name of it is Gore Court , and it is surrounded by a wasteland that would impress T. S. Eliot .
That's not precisely the way Larkin urges them to look at it , though .
He conjures herds of deer , and wild birds crowding the air .
He suggests that Gore Court embodies all the glories of Tudor splendor .
The stained-glass windows may have developed unpremeditated patinas , the paneling may be no more durable than the planks in a political platform .
The vast , dungeon kitchens may seem hardly worth using except on occasions when one is faced with a thousand unexpected guests for lunch .
Larkin has an answer to all that .
The spaciousness of the Tudor cooking areas , for example , will provide needed space for the extra television sets required by modern butlers , cooks and maids .
Also , perhaps , table-tennis and other indoor sports to keep them fit and contented .
It's a wonder , really , to how much mendacious trouble Larkin puts himself to sell the Jerebohms that preposterous manse .
He doesn't really need the immense sum of money ( probably converted from American gold on the London Exchange ) he makes them pay .
For Larkin is already wonderfully contented with his lot .
He has a glorious wife and many children .
When he needs money to buy something like , say , the Rolls-Royce he keeps near his vegetable patch , he takes a flyer in the sale of surplus army supplies .
One of those capital-gains ventures , in fact , has saddled him with Gore Court .
He is willing to sell it just to get it off his hands .
And the Jerebohms are more than willing to buy it .
They plan to become county people who know the proper way to terminate a fox's life on earth .
First one , then the other
If , in Larkin's eyes , they are nothing but Piccadilly farmers , he has as much to learn about them as they have to learn about the ways of truly rural living .
Mr. Bates shows us how this mutual education spreads its inevitable havoc .
Oneupmanship is practiced by both sides in a total war .
First the Larkins are ahead , then the Jerebohms .
After Larkin has been persuaded to restock his tangled acres with pheasants , he poaches only what he needs for the nourishment of his family and local callers .
One of the local callers , a retired brigadier apparently left over from Kipling's tales of India , does not approve of the way Larkin gets his birds .
He doesn't think that potting them from a deck chair on the south side of the house with a quart glass of beer for sustenance is entirely sporting .
But the brigadier dines on the birds with relish .
It is truly odd and ironic that the most handsome and impressive film yet made from Miguel De Cervantes' `` Don Quixote '' is the brilliant Russian spectacle , done in wide screen and color , which opened yesterday at the Fifty-fifth Street and Sixty-eighth Street Playhouses .
More than a beautiful visualization of the illustrious adventures and escapades of the tragi-comic knight-errant and his squire , Sancho Panza , in seventeenth-century Spain , this inevitably abbreviated rendering of the classic satire on chivalry is an affectingly warm and human exposition of character .
Nikolai Cherkasov , the Russian actor who has played such heroic roles as Alexander Nevsky and Ivan the Terrible , performs the lanky Don Quixote , and does so with a simple dignity that bridges the inner nobility and the surface absurdity of this poignant man .
His addle-brained knight-errant , self-appointed to the ridiculous position in an age when armor had already been relegated to museums and the chivalrous code of knight-errantry had become a joke , is , as Cervantes no doubt intended , a gaunt but gracious symbol of good , moving soberly and sincerely in a world of cynics , hypocrites and rogues .
Cherkasov does not caricature him , as some actors have been inclined to do .
He treats this deep-eyed , bearded , bony crackpot with tangible affection and respect .
Directed by Grigory Kozintsev in a tempo that is studiously slow , he develops a sense of a high tradition shining brightly and passing gravely through an impious world .
The complexities of communication have been considerably abetted in this case by appropriately stilted English language that has been excellently dubbed in place of the Russian dialogue .
The voices of all the characters , including that of Cherkasov , have richness , roughness or color to conform with the personalities .
And the subtleties of the dialogue are most helpfully conveyed .
Since Russian was being spoken instead of Spanish , there is no violation of artistry or logic here .
Splendid , too , is the performance of Yuri Tolubeyev , one of Russia's leading comedians , as Sancho Panza , the fat , grotesque `` squire '' .
Though his character is broader and more comically rounded than the don , he gives it a firmness and toughness -- a sort of peasant dignity -- too .
It is really as though the Russians have seen in this character the oftentimes underlying vitality and courage of supposed buffoons .
The episode in which Sancho Panza concludes the joke that is played on him when he is facetiously put in command of an `` island '' is one of the best in the film .
True , the pattern and flow of the drama have strong literary qualities that are a bit wearisome in the first half , before Don Quixote goes to the duke's court .
But strength and poignancy develop thenceforth , and the windmill and deathbed episodes gather the threads of realization of the wonderfulness of the old boy .
There are other good representations of peasants and people of the court by actors who are finely costumed and magnificently photographed in this last of the Russian films to reach this country in the program of joint cultural exchange .
Also on the bill at the Fifty-fifth Street is a nice ten-minute color film called `` Sunday In Greenwich Village '' , a tour of the haunts and joints .
Television has yet to work out a living arrangement with jazz , which comes to the medium more as an uneasy guest than as a relaxed member of the family .
There seems to be an unfortunate assumption that an hour of Chicago-style jazz in prime evening time , for example , could not be justified without the trimmings of a portentous documentary .
At least this seemed to be the working hypothesis for `` Chicago And All That Jazz '' , presented on NBC-TV Nov. 26 .
The program came out of the NBC Special Projects department , and was slotted in the Du Pont Show Of The Week series .
Perhaps Special Projects necessarily thinks along documentary lines .
If so , it might be worth while to assign a future jazz show to a different department -- one with enough confidence in the musical material to cut down on the number of performers and give them a little room to display their talents .
As a matter of fact , this latter approach has already been tried , and with pleasing results .
A few years ago a `` Timex All-Star Jazz Show '' offered a broad range of styles , ranging from Lionel Hampton's big band to the free-wheeling Dukes Of Dixieland .
An enthusiastic audience confirmed the `` live '' character of the hour , and provided the interaction between musician and hearer which almost always seems to improve the quality of performance .
About that same time John Crosby's TV series on the popular arts proved again that giving jazz ample breathing space is one of the most sensible things a producer can do .
In an hour remembered for its almost rudderless movement , a score of jazz luminaries went before the cameras for lengthy periods .
The program had been arranged to permit the establishment of a mood of intense concentration on the music .
Cameras stared at soloists' faces in extreme closeups , then considerately pulled back for full views of ensemble work .
`` Chicago And All That Jazz '' could not be faulted on the choice of artists .
Some of the in-person performers were Jack Teagarden , Gene Krupa , Bud Freeman , Pee Wee Russell , Johnny St. Cyr , Joe Sullivan , Red Allen , Lil Armstrong , Blossom Seeley .
The jazz buff could hardly ask for more .
Furthermore , Garry Moore makes an ideal master of ceremonies .
( He played host at the Timex show already mentioned .
)
One of the script's big problems was how to blend pictures and music of the past with live performances by musicians of today .
NBC had gathered a lot of historical material which it was eager to share .
For example , there was sheet music with the word `` jazz '' in the title , to illustrate how a word of uncertain origin took hold .
Samples zoomed into closeup range in regular succession , like telephone poles passing on the highway , while representative music reinforced the mood of the late teens and 1920's .
However well chosen and cleverly arranged , such memorabilia unfortunately amounted to more of an interruption than an auxiliary to the evening's main business , which ( considering the talent at hand ) should probably have been the gathering of fresh samples of the Chicago style .
Another source of NBC pride was its rare film clip of Bix Beiderbecke , but this view of the great trumpeter flew by so fast that a prolonged wink would have blotted out the entire glimpse .
Similarly , in presenting still photographs of early jazz groups , the program allowed no time for a close perusal .
`` Chicago And All That Jazz '' may have wound up satisfying neither the confirmed fan nor the inquisitive newcomer .
By trying to be both a serious survey of a bygone era and a showcase for today's artists , the program turned out to be a not-quite-perfect example of either .
Still , the network's willingness to experiment in this musical field is to be commended , and future essays happily anticipated .
Even Joan Sutherland may not have anticipated the tremendous reception she received from the Metropolitan Opera audience attending her debut as Lucia in Donizetti's `` Lucia Di Lammermoor '' Sunday night .
The crowd staged its own mad scene in salvos of cheers and applause and finally a standing ovation as Miss Sutherland took curtain call after curtain call following a fantastic `` Mad Scene '' created on her own and with the help of the composer and the other performers .
Her entrance in Scene 2 , Act 1 , brought some disconcerting applause even before she had sung a note .
Thereafter the audience waxed applause-happy , but discriminating operagoers reserved judgment as her singing showed signs of strain , her musicianship some questionable procedure and her acting uncomfortable stylization .
As she gained composure during the second act , her technical resourcefulness emerged stronger , though she had already revealed a trill almost unprecedented in years of performances of `` Lucia '' .
She topped the sextet brilliantly .
Each high note had the crowd in ecstasy so that it stopped the show midway in the `` Mad Scene '' , but the real reason was a realization of the extraordinary performance unfolding at the moment .
Miss Sutherland appeared almost as another person in this scene : A much more girlish Lucia , a sensational coloratura who ran across stage while singing , and an actress immersed in her role .
What followed the outburst brought almost breathless silence as Miss Sutherland revealed her mastery of a voice probably unique among sopranos today .
This big , flexible voice with uncommon range has been superbly disciplined .
Nervousness at the start must have caused the blemishes of her first scene , or she may warm up slowly .
In the fullness of her vocal splendor , however , she could sing the famous scene magnificently .
Technically it was fascinating , aurally spell-binding , and dramatically quite realistic .
Many years have passed since a Metropolitan audience heard anything comparable .
Her debut over , perhaps the earlier scenes will emerge equally fine .
The performance also marked the debut of a most promising young conductor , Silvio Varviso .
He injected more vitality into the score than it has revealed in many years .
He may respect too much the Italian tradition of letting singers hold on to their notes , but to restrain them in a singers' opera may be quite difficult .
Richard Tucker sang Edgardo in glorious voice .
His bel canto style gave the performance a special distinction .
The remainder of the cast fulfilled its assignments no more than satisfactorily just as the old production and limited stage direction proved only serviceable .
Miss Sutherland first sang Lucia at Covent Garden in 1959 .
( The first Metropolitan Opera broadcast on Dec. 9 will introduce her as Lucia .
) She has since turned to Bellini , whose opera `` Beatrice Di Tenda '' in a concert version with the American Opera Society introduced her to New York last season .
She will sing `` La Sonambula '' with it here next week .
Anyone for musical Ping-pong ? ?
It's really quite fun -- as long as you like games .
You will need a stereo music system , with speakers preferably placed at least seven or eight feet apart , and one or more of the new London `` Phase 4 '' records .
There are 12 of these to choose from , all of them of popular music except for the star release , Pass In Review ( SP-44001 ) .
This features the marching songs of several nations , recorded as though the various national bands were marching by your reviewing stand .
Complete with crowd effects , interruptions by jet planes , and sundry other touches of realism , this disc displays London's new technique to the best effect .
All of the jackets carry a fairly technical and detailed explanation of this new recording program .
No reference is made to the possibility of recording other than popular music in this manner , and it would not seem to lend itself well to serious music .
Directionality is greatly exaggerated most of the time ; ;
but when the sounds of the two speakers are allowed to mix , there is excellent depth and dimension to the music .
You definitely hear some of the instruments close up and others farther back , with the difference in placement apparently more distinct than would result from the nearer instruments merely being louder than the ones farther back .
This is a characteristic of good stereo recording and one of its tremendous advantages over monaural sound .
London explains that the very distinct directional effect in the Phase 4 series is due in large part to their novel methods of microphoning and recording the music on a number of separate tape channels .
These are then mixed by their sound engineers with the active co-operation of the musical staff and combined into the final two channels which are impressed on the record .
In some of the numbers the instrumental parts have even been recorded at different times and then later combined on the master tape to produce special effects .
Some clue to the character of London's approach in these discs may be gained immediately from the fact that ten of the 12 titles include the word `` percussion '' or `` percussive '' .
Drums , xylophones , castanets , and other percussive instruments are reproduced remarkably well .
Only too often , however , you have the feeling that you are sitting in a room with some of the instruments lined up on one wall to your left and others facing them on the wall to your right .
They are definitely in the same room with you , but your head starts to swing as though you were sitting on the very edge of a tennis court watching a spirited volley .
The Percussive Twenties ( SP-44006 ) stirs pleasant memories with well-known songs of that day , and Johnny Keating's Kombo gives forth with tingling jazz in Percussive Moods ( SP-44005 ) .
Big Band Percussion ( SP-44002 ) seemed one of the least attractive discs -- the arrangements just didn't have so much character as the others .
There is an extraordinary sense of presence in all of these recordings , apparently obtained at least in part by emphasizing the middle and high frequencies .
The penalty for this is noticeable in the big , bold , brilliant , but brassy piano sounds in Melody And Percussion For Two Pianos ( SP-44007 ) .
All of the releases , however , are recorded at a gratifyingly high level , with resultant masking of any surface noise .
Pass In Review practically guarantees enjoyment , and is a dramatic demonstration of the potentialities of any stereo music system .
Many Hollywood films manage somehow to be authentic , but not realistic .
Strange , but true -- authenticity and realism often aren't related at all .
Almost every film bearing the imprimatur of Hollywood is physically authentic -- in fact , impeccably so .
In any given period piece the costumes , bric-a-brac , vehicles , and decor , bear the stamp of unimpeachable authenticity .
The major studios maintain a cadre of film librarians and research specialists who look to this matter .
During the making recently of an important Biblical film , some 40 volumes of research material and sketches not only of costumes and interiors , but of architectural developments , sports arenas , vehicles , and other paraphernalia were compiled , consulted , and complied with .
But , alas , the authenticity seems to stop at the set's edge .
The drama itself -- and this seems to be lavishly true of Biblical drama -- often has hardly any relationship with authenticity at all .
The storyline , in sort , is wildly unrealistic .
Thus , in `` The Story Of Ruth '' we have Ruth , Naomi , and Boaz and sets that are meticulously authentic .
But except for a vague adherence to the basic storyline -- i.e. , that Ruth remained with Naomi and finally wound up with Boaz -- the film version has little to do with the Bible .
And in the new `` King Of Kings '' the plot involves intrigues and twists and turns that cannot be traced to the Gospels .
Earlier this month Edward R. Murrow , director of the United States Information Agency , came to Hollywood and had dinner with more than 100 leaders of the motion picture industry .
He talked about unauthentic storylines too .
He intimated that they weren't doing the country much good in the Cold War .
And to an industry that prides itself on authenticity , he urged greater realism .
`` In many corners of the globe '' , he said , `` the major source of impressions about this country are in the movies they meet .
Would we want a future-day Gibbon or Macaulay recounting the saga of America with movies as his prime source of knowledge ? ?
Yet for much of the globe , Hollywood is just that -- prime , if not sole , source of knowledge .
If a man totally ignorant of America were to judge our land and its civilization based on Hollywood alone , what conclusions do you think he might come to ? ?
Francois D'Albert , Hungarian-born violinist who made his New York debut three years ago , played a return engagement last night in Judson Hall .
He is now president of the Chicago Conservatory College .
His pianist was Donald Jenni , a faculty member at DePaul University .
The acoustics of the small hall had been misgauged by the artists , so that for the first half of the program , when the piano was partially open , Mr. Jenni's playing was too loud .
In vying with him , Mr. D'Albert also seemed to be overdriving his tone .
This was not an overriding drawback to enjoyment of the performances , however , except in the case of the opening work , Mozart's Sonata in A ( K. 526 ) , which clattered along noisily in an unrelieved fashion .
Brahm's Sonata in A , although also vigorous , stood up well under the two artists' strong , large-scale treatment .
Mr. D'Albert has a firm , attractive tone , which eschews an overly sweet vibrato .
He made the most of the long Brahmsian phrases , and by the directness and drive of his playing gave the work a handsome performance .
A Sonata For Violin And Piano , called `` Bella Bella '' , by Robert Fleming , was given its first United States performance .
The title refers to the nickname given his wife by the composer , who is also a member of the National Film Board of Canada .
The work's two movements , one melodically sentimental , the other brightly capricious , are clever enough in a Ravel-like style , but they rehash a wornout idiom .
They might well indicate conjugal felicity , but in musical terms that smack of Hollywood .
Works by Dohnanyi , Hubay , Mr. D'Albert himself and Paganini , indicated that the violinist had some virtuoso fireworks up his sleeve as well as a reserved attitude toward a lyric phrase .
Standard items by Sarasate and Saint-Saens completed the program .
In recent years Anna Xydis has played with the New York Philharmonic and at Lewisohn Stadium , but her program last night at Town Hall was the Greek-born pianist's first New York recital since 1948 .
Miss Xydis has a natural affinity for the keyboard , and in the twenty years since her debut here she has gained the authority and inner assurance that lead to audience control .
And the tone she commands is always beautiful in sound .
Since she also has considerable technical virtuosity and a feeling for music in the romantic tradition , Miss Xydis gave her listeners a good deal of pleasure .
She played with style and a touch of the grand manner , and every piece she performed was especially effective in its closing measures .
The second half of her program was devoted to Russian composers of this century .
It was in them that Miss Xydis was at her best .
The Rachmaninoff Prelude No. 12 , Op. 32 , for instance , gave her an opportunity to exploit one of her special facilities -- the ability to produce fine deep-sounding bass tones while contrasting them simultaneously with fine silver filagree in the treble .
The four Kabalevsky Preludes were also assured , rich in color and songful .
And the Prokofieff Seventh Sonata had the combination of romanticism and modern bravura that Prokofieff needs .
Miss Xydis' earlier selections were Mendelssohn's Variations Serieuses , in which each variation was nicely set off from the others ; ;
Haydn's Sonata in E minor , which was unfailingly pleasant in sound , and Chopin's Sonata in B flat minor .
A memory lapse in the last somewhat marred the pianist's performance .
So , what was the deepest music on her program had the poorest showing .
Miss Xydis was best when she did not need to be too probing .
All the generals who held important commands in World War 2 , did not write books .
It only seems as if they did .
And the best books by generals were not necessarily the first ones written .
One of the very best is only now published in this country , five years after its first publication in England .
It is `` Defeat Into Victory '' , by Field Marshal Viscount Slim .
A long book heavily weighted with military technicalities , in this edition it is neither so long nor so technical as it was originally .
Field Marshal Slim has abridged it for the benefit of `` those who , finding not so great an attraction in accounts of military moves and counter-moves , are more interested in men and their reactions to stress , hardship and danger '' .
The man whose reactions and conclusions get the most space is , of course , the Field Marshal himself .
William Joseph Slim , First Viscount Slim , former Governor General of Australia , was the principal British commander in the field during the Burma War .
He had been a corps commander during the disastrous defeat and retreat of 1942 when the ill-prepared , ill-equipped British forces `` were outmaneuvered , outfought and outgeneraled '' .
He returned in command of an international army of Gurkhas , Indians , Africans , Chinese and British .
And in a series of bitterly fought battles in the jungles and hills and along the great rivers of Burma he waged one of the most brilliant campaigns of the war .
`` The Forgotten War '' his soldiers called the Burma fighting because the war in Africa and Europe enjoyed priorities in equipment and in headlines .
Parts of `` Defeat Into Victory '' are a tangle of Burmese place names and military units , but a little application makes everything clear enough .
On the whole this is an interesting and exceptionally well-written book .
Field Marshal Slim is striking in description , amusing in many anecdotes .
He has a pleasant sense of humor and is modest enough to admit mistakes and even `` a cardinal error '' .
He praises many individuals generously .
He himself seems to be tough , tireless , able and intelligent , more intellectual and self-critical than most soldiers .
Remaking an army to win
`` Defeat Into Victory '' is a dramatic and lively military narrative .
But it is most interesting in its account of the unending problems of high command , of decisions and their reasons , of the myriad matters that demand attention in addition to battle action .
Before he could return to Burma , Field Marshal Slim had to rally the defeated remnants of a discouraged army and unite them with fresh recruits .
His remarks about training , discipline , morale , leadership and command are enlightening .
He believed in making inspiring speeches and he made a great many .
He believed in being seen near the front lines and he was there .
For general morale reasons and to encourage the efforts of his supply officers , when food was short for combat troops he cut the rations of his headquarters staff accordingly .
Other crucial matters required constant supervision : labor and all noncombatant troops , whose morale was vital , too ; ;
administrative organization and delicate diplomatic relations with Top Brass -- British , American and Chinese ; ;
health , hygiene , medical aid and preventive medicine ; ;
hospitals ( inadequate ) and nurses ( scanty ) ; ;
food and military supplies ; ;
logistics and transport ; ;
airdrops and airstrips ; ;
roads and river barges to be built .
Expected of a commander
Commenting on these and other matters , Field Marshal Slim makes many frank and provocative remarks :
`` When in doubt as to two courses of action , a general should choose the bolder '' .
`` The commander has failed in his duty if he has not won victory -- for that is his duty '' .
`` It only does harm to talk to troops about new and desirable equipment which others may have but which you cannot give them .
It depresses them .
So I made no mention of air transport until we could get at least some of it '' .
Field Marshal Slim is more impressed by the courage of Japanese soldiers than he is by the ability of their commanders .
Of the Japanese private he says : `` He fought and marched till he died .
If 500 Japanese were ordered to hold a position , we had to kill 495 before it was ours -- and then the last five killed themselves '' .
Brooding about future wars , the Field Marshal has this to say : `` The Asian fighting man is at least equally brave ( as the white ) , usually more careless of death , less encumbered by mental doubts , less troubled by humanitarian sentiment , and not so moved by slaughter and mutilation around him .
He is , by background and living standards , better fitted to endure hardship uncomplainingly , to demand less in the way of subsistence or comfort , and to look after himself when thrown on his own resources '' .
A bunch of young buckaroos from out West , who go by the name of Texas Boys Choir , loped into Town Hall last night and succeeded in corralling the hearts of a sizable audience .
Actually , the program they sang was at least two-thirds serious and high-minded , and they sang it beautifully .
Under the capable direction of the choir's founder , Geroge Bragg , the twenty-six boys made some lovely sounds in an opening group of Renaissance and Baroque madrigals and motets , excerpts from Pergolesi's `` Stabat Mater '' and all of the Britten `` Ceremonial Of Carols '' .
Their singing was well-balanced , clear and , within obvious limitations , extremely pleasing .
The limitations are those one expects from untrained and unsettled voices -- an occasional shrillness of almost earsplitting intensity , an occasional waver and now and then a bleat .
But Mr. Bragg is a remarkably gifted conductor , and the results he has produced with his boys are generally superior .
Most surprising of all , he has accomplished some prodigies in training for the production of words .
The Latin , for example , was not only clear ; ;
it was even beautiful .
Furthermore , there were solid musical virtues in the interpretation of the music .
Lines came out neatly and in good balance .
Tempos were lively .
The piano accompaniments by Istvan Szelenyi were stylish .
A boy soprano named Dixon Boyd sang a Durante solo motet and a few other passages enchantingly .
Other capable soloists included David Clifton , Joseph Schockler and Pat Thompson .
The final group included folk songs from back home , stomped out , shouted and chanted with irresistible spirit and in cowboy costume .
Boys will be boys , and Texans will be Texans .
The combination proved quite irresistible last night .
The Polish song and dance company called Mazowsze , after the region of Poland , where it has its headquarters , opened a three-week engagement at the City Center last night .
A thoroughly ingratiating company it is , and when the final curtain falls you may suddenly realize that you have been sitting with a broad grin on your face all evening .
Not that it is all funny , by any means , though some of it is definitely so , but simply that the dancers are young and handsome , high-spirited and communicative , and the program itself is as vivacious as it is varied .
There is no use at all in trying to follow it dance by dance and title by title , for it has a kind of nonstop format , and moves along in an admirable continuity that demands no pauses for identification .
The material is all basically of folk origin , gleaned from every section of Poland .
But under the direction of Mira Ziminska-Sygietynska , who with her late husband founded the organization in 1948 , it has all been put into theatrical form , treated selectively , choreographed specifically for presentation to spectators , and performed altogether professionally .
Under the surface of the wide range of folk movements is apparent a sound technical ballet training , and an equally professional sense of performing .
Since the organization was created thirteen years ago , it is obvious that this is not the original company ; ;
it is more likely the sons and daughters of that company .
The girls are charming children and the men are wonderfully vital and engaging youngsters .
The stage is constantly full of them ; ;
indeed , there are never fewer than eight of them on stage , and that is only for the more intimate numbers .
They can be exuberant or sentimental , flirtatious or funny , but the only thing they seem unable to be is dull .
To pick out particular numbers is something of a problem , but one or two identifiable items are too conspicuously excellent to be missed .
There is , for example , a stunning Krakowiak that closes the first act ; ;
the mazurka choreographed by Witold Zapala to music from Moniuszko's opera , `` Strasny Dwor' , may be the most beautiful mazurka you are likely ever to see ; ;
there is an enchanting polonaise ; ;
and the dances and songs from the Tatras contain a magnificent dance for the men .
Everywhere there are little touches of humor , and the leader of the on-stage band of musicians is an ebullient comedian who plays all sorts of odd instruments with winning warmth .
The Theatre-by-the-Sea , Matunuck , presents `` King Of Hearts '' by Jean Kerr and Eleanor Brooke .
Directed by Michael Murray ; ;
settings by William David Roberts .
The cast :
Producer John Holmes has chosen a delightful comedy for his season's opener at Matunuck in Jean Kerr's `` King Of Hearts '' .
The dialogue is sharp , witty and candid -- typical `` don't eat the daisies '' material -- which has stamped the author throughout her books and plays , and it was obvious that the Theatre-by-the-Sea audience liked it .
The story is of a famous strip cartoonist , an arty individual , whose specialty is the American boy and who adopts a 10-year-old to provide him with fresh idea material .
This is when his troubles begin , not to mention a fledgling artist who he hires , and who turns out to have ideas of his own , with particular respect to the hero's sweetheart-secretary .
John Heffernan , playing Larry Larkin , the cartoonist , carries the show in marvelous fashion .
His portrayal of an edgy head-in-the-clouds artist is virtually flawless .
This may be unfortunate , perhaps , from the standpoint of David Hedison , Providence's contribution to Hollywood , who is appearing by special arrangement with 20th Century-Fox .
Not that Mr. Hedison does not make the most of his role .
He does , and more .
But the book is written around a somewhat dizzy cartoonist , and it has to be that way .
A word should be said for Gary Morgan , a Broadway youngster who , as the adopted son , makes life miserable for nearly everybody and Larkin in particular .
And for his playmate , Francis Coletta of West Warwick , who has a bit part , Billy .
On the whole , audiences will like this performance .
It is a tremendous book , lively , constantly moving , and the Matunuck cast does well by it .
The Newport Playhouse presents `` Epitaph For George Dillon '' by John Osborne and Anthony Creighton , directed by Wallace Gray .
The cast :
The angriest young man in Newport last night was at the Playhouse , where `` Epitaph For George Dillon '' opened as the jazz festival closed .
For the hero of this work by John Osborne and Anthony Creighton is a chap embittered by more than the lack of beer during a jam session .
He's mad at a world he did not make .
Furthermore , he's something of a scoundrel , an artist whose mind and feelings are all finger-tips .
This is in contrast to the family with whom he boards .
They not only think and feel cliches but live cliches as well .
It is into this household , one eroded by irritations that have tortured the souls out of its people , that George Dillon enters at the beginning of the play .
An unsuccessful playwright and actor , he has faith only in himself and in a talent he is not sure exists .
By the end of the third act , the artist is dead but the body lingers on , a shell among other shells .
Not altogether a successful play , `` Epitaph For George Dillon '' overcomes through sheer vitality and power what in a lesser work might be crippling .
It is awfully talky , for instance , and not all of the talk is terribly impressive .
But it strikes sparks on occasion and their light causes all else to be forgotten .
There is a fine second act , as an example , one in which Samuel Groom , as Dillon , has an opportunity to blaze away in one impassioned passage after another .
This is an exciting young actor to watch .
Just as exciting but in a more technically proficient way is Laura Stuart , whose complete control of her every movement is lovely to watch .
Miss Stuart is as intensely vibrant as one could wish , almost an icy shriek threatening to explode at any moment .
Also fine are Sue Lawless , as a mother more protective and belligerent than a female spider and just as destructive , Harold Cherry , as her scratchy spouse , and Hildy Weissman , as a vegetable in human form .
Wallace Gray has directed a difficult play here , usually well , but with just a bit too much physical movement in the first act for my taste .
Still , his finale is put together with taste and a most sensitive projection of that pale sustenance , despair .
The Warwick Musical Theater presents `` Where's Charley ? ?
'' With music and lyrics by Frank Loesser , directed by Christopher Hewett , choreography by Peter Conlow , musical direction by Samuel Matlowsky .
The cast :
Everybody fell in love with Amy again last night at the Warwick Musical Theater , and Shelley Berman was to blame .
One of the finest soft shoe tunes ever invented , `` Once In Love With Amy '' is also , of course , one of the most tantalizingly persistent of light love lyrics to come out of American musical comedy in our era .
So the audience last night was all ears and eyes just after Act 2 , got a rousing opening chorus , `` Where's Charley ? ?
'' , and Berman sifted out all alone on the stage with the ambling chords and beat of the song just whispering into being .
It is greatly to Berman's credit that he made no attempt to outdo Ray Bolger .
He dropped his earlier and delightful hamming , which is about the only way to handle the old war horse called `` Charley's Aunt '' , and let himself go with as appealing an `` Amy '' as anybody could ask .
In brief , Berman played himself and not Bolger .
The big audience started applauding even before he had finished .
The whole production this week is fresh and lively .
The costumes are stunning evocations of the voluminous gowns and picture hats of the Gibson Girl days .
The ballet work is on the nose , especially in the opening number by `` The New Ashmolean Marching Society and Students' Conservatory Band '' , along with a fiery and sultry Brazilian fantasia later .
Berman , whose fame has rested in recent years on his skills as a night club monologist , proved himself very much at home in musical comedy .
Sparrow-size Virginia Gibson , with sparkling blue eyes and a cheerful smile , made a suitably perky Amy , while Melisande Congdon , as the real aunt , was positively monumental in the very best Gibson Girl manner .
All told , `` Where's Charley ? ?
'' Ought not to be missed .
It has a fast pace , excellent music , expert direction , and not only a good comedian , but an appealing person in his own right , Mr. Berman .
The Broadway Theater League of Rhode Island presents C. Edwin Knill's and Martin Tahse's production of `` Fiorello ! !
'' At Veterans Memorial Auditorium .
The book is by Jerome Weidman and George Abbott , music by Jerry Bock , lyrics by Sheldon Harnick , choreography by Peter Gennaro , scenery , costumes and lighting by William and Jean Eckart , musical direction by Jack Elliott , and the production was directed by Mr. Abbott .
The cast :
This is one of the happier events of the season .
The company which performed the Pulitzer Prize musical here last night and will repeat it twice today is full of bounce , the politicians are in fine voice , the chorines evoke happy memories , and the Little Flower rides to break a lance again .
I saw `` Fiorello ! !
'' Performed in New York by the original cast and I think this company is every bit as good , and perhaps better .
Certainly in the matter of principals there is nothing lacking .
Bob Carroll may not bear quite as close a physical resemblance to LaGuardia as Tom Bosley does , but I was amazed at the way he became more and more Fiorello as the evening progressed , until one had to catch one's self up and remember that this wasn't really LaGuardia come back among us again .
Then Rudy Bond was simply grand as Ben , the distraught Republican Party district chieftain .
And Paul Lipson , as Morris , the faithful one who never gets home to his Shirley's dinner , was fine , too .
As for the ladies , they were full of charm , and sincerity , and deep and abiding affection for this hurrying driving , honest , little man .
Charlotte Fairchild was excellent as the loyal Marie , who became the second Mrs. LaGuardia , singing and acting with remarkable conviction .
Jen Nelson , as Thea , his first wife , managed to make that short role impressive .
And little Zeme North , a Dora with real spirit and verve , was fascinating whether she was singing of her love for Floyd , the cop who becomes sewer commissioner and then is promoted into garbage , or just dancing to display her exuberant feelings .
Such fascinating novelties in the score as the fugual treatment of `` On The Side Of The Angels '' and `` Politics And Poker '' were handled splendidly , and I thought Rudy Bond and his band of tuneful ward-heelers made `` Little Tin Box '' even better than it was done by the New York cast ; ;
all the words of its clever lyrics came through with perfect clarity .
The party at Floyd's penthouse gave the `` chorines '' a chance for a nostalgic frolic through all those hackneyed routines which have become a classic choreographic statement of the era's nonsense .
LaGuardia's multi-lingual rallies , when he is running for Congress , are well staged , and wind up in a wild Jewish folk-dance that is really great musical theater .
Martin Tahse has established quite a reputation for himself as a successful stager of touring productions .
Not a corner has been visibly cut in this one .
The sets are remarkably elaborate for a road-show that doesn't pause long in any one place , and they are devised so that they shift with a minimum of interruption or obtrusiveness .
( Several times recently I have wondered whether shows were being staged for the sake of the script or just to entertain the audience with the spectacle of scenery being shifted right in front of their eyes .
I'm glad to say there's none of that distraction in this `` Fiorello ! !
'' )
It has all been done in superb style , and the result is a show which deserves the support of every person hereabouts who enjoys good musical theater .
Loew's theater presents `` Where The Boys Are '' , an MGM picture produced by Joe Pasternak and directed by Henry Levin from a screenplay by George Wells .
The cast :
Since the hero , a sterling and upright fellow , is a rich Brown senior , while two Yalies are cast as virtual rapists , I suppose I should disqualify myself from sitting in judgment on `` Where The Boys Are '' , but I shall do nothing of the sort .
Instead -- and not just to prove my objectivity -- I hasten to report that it's a highly amusing film which probably does a fairly accurate job of reporting on the Easter vacation shenanigans of collegians down in Fort Lauderdale , and that it seems to come to grips quite honestly with the moral problem that most commonly vexes youngsters in this age group -- that is to say , sex .
The answers the girls give struck me as reasonably varied and healthily individual .
If most of them weren't exactly specific -- well , that's the way it is in life , I guess .
But at least it's reassuring to see some teenagers who don't profess to know all the answers and are thinking about their problems instead .
`` Where The Boys Are '' also has a juvenile bounce that makes for a refreshing venture in comedy .
There are some sharp and whipping lines and some hilariously funny situations -- the best of the latter being a mass impromptu plunge into a nightclub tank where a `` mermaid '' is performing .
Most of the female faces are new , or at least not too familiar .
Dolores Hart , is charming in a leading role , and quite believable .
I was delighted with Paula Prentiss' comedy performance , which was as fresh and unstilted as one's highest hopes might ask .
A couple of the males made good comedy , too -- Jim Hutton and Frank Gorshin .
The only performance which was too soft for me was that of Yvette Mimieux , but since someone had to become the victim of despoilers , just to emphasize that such things do happen at these fracases , I suppose this was the attitude the part called for .
I must say , however , that I preferred the acting that had something of a biting edge to it .
To anyone who remembers Newport at its less than maximum violence , this view of what the boys and girls do in the springtime before they wing north for the Jazz Festival ought to prove entertaining .
The second feature , `` The Price Of Silence '' , is a British detective story that will talk your head off .
The superb intellectual and spiritual vitality of William James was never more evident than in his letters .
Here was a man with an enormous gift for living as well as thinking .
To both persons and ideas he brought the same delighted interest , the same open-minded relish for what was unique in each , the same discriminating sensibility and quicksilver intelligence , the same gallantry of judgment .
For this latest addition to the Great Letters Series , under the general editorship of Louis Kronenberger , Miss Hardwick has made a selection which admirably displays the variety of James's genius , not to mention the felicities of his style .
And how he could write ! !
His famous criticism of brother Henry's `` third style '' is surely as subtly , even elegantly , worded an analysis of the latter's intricate air castles as Henry himself could ever have produced .
His letter to his daughter on the pains of growing up is surely as trenchant , forthright , and warmly understanding a piece of advice as ever a grown-up penned to a sensitive child , and with just the right tone of unpatronizing good humor .
Most of all , his letters to his philosophic colleagues show a magnanimity as well as an honesty which help to explain Whitehead's reference to James as `` that adorable genius '' .
Miss Hardwick speaks of his `` superb gift for intellectual friendship '' , and it is certainly a joy to see the intellectual life lived so free from either academic aridity or passionate dogmatism .
This is a virtue of which we have great need in a society where there seems to be an increasing lack of communication -- or even desire for communication -- between differing schools of thought .
It holds an equally valuable lesson for a society where the word `` intellectual '' has become a term of opprobrium to millions of well-meaning people who somehow imagine that it must be destructive of the simpler human virtues .
To his Harvard colleague , Josiah Royce , whose philosophic position differed radically from his own , James could write , `` Different as our minds are , yours has nourished mine , as no other social influence ever has , and in converse with you I have always felt that my life was being lived importantly '' .
Of another colleague , George Santayana , he could write : `` The great event in my life recently has been the reading of Santayana's book .
Although I absolutely reject the Platonism of it , I have literally squealed with delight at the imperturbable perfection with which the position is laid down on page after page '' .
Writing to his colleague George Herbert Palmer -- `` Glorious old Palmer '' , as he addresses him -- James says that if only the students at Harvard could really understand Royce , Santayana , Palmer , and himself and see that their varying systems are `` so many religions , ways of fronting life , and worth fighting for '' , then Harvard would have a genuine philosophic universe .
`` The best condition of it would be an open conflict and rivalry of the diverse systems .
The world might ring with the struggle , if we devoted ourselves exclusively to belaboring each other '' .
The `` belaboring '' is of course jocular , yet James was not lacking in fundamental seriousness -- unless we measure him by that ultimate seriousness of the great religious leader or thinker who stakes all on his vision of God .
To James this vision never quite came , despite his appreciation of it in others .
But there is a dignity and even a hint of the inspired prophet in his words to one correspondent : `` You ask what I am going to ' reply ' to Bradley .
But why need one reply to everything and everybody ? ?
I think that readers generally hate minute polemics and recriminations .
All polemic of ours should , I believe , be either very broad statements of contrast , or fine points treated singly , and as far as possible impersonally .
As far as the rising generation goes , why not simply express ourselves positively , and trust that the truer view quietly will displace the other .
Here again ' God will know his own ' '' .
The collected works of James Thurber , now numbering 25 volumes ( including the present exhibit ) represent a high standard of literary excellence , as every schoolboy knows .
The primitive-eclogue quality of his drawings , akin to that of graffiti scratched on a cave wall , is equally well known .
About all that remains to be said is that the present selection , most of which appeared first in The New Yorker , comprises ( as usual ) a slightly unstrung necklace , held together by little more than a slender thread cunningly inserted in the spine of the book .
The one unifying note , if any , is sounded in the initial article entitled : `` How To Get Through The Day '' .
It is repeated at intervals in some rather sadly desperate word-games for insomniacs , the hospitalized , and others forced to rely on inner resources , including ( in the P's alone ) `` palindromes '' , `` paraphrases '' , and `` parodies '' .
`` The Tyranny Of Trivia '' suggests arbitrary alphabetical associations to induce slumber .
And new vistas of hairshirt asceticism are opened by scholarly monographs entitled : `` Friends , Romans , Countrymen , Lend Me Your Ear-Muffs '' , `` Such a Phrase as Drifts Through Dream '' , and `` The New Vocabularianism '' .
Some of Thurber's curative methods involve strong potions of mixed metaphor , malapropism , and gobbledygook and are recommended for use only in extreme cases .
A burlesque paean entitled : `` Hark The Herald Tribune , Times , And All The Other Angels Sing '' brilliantly succeeds in exaggerating even motion-picture ballyhooey .
`` How The Kooks Crumble '' features an amusingly accurate take-off on sneaky announcers who attempt to homogenize radio-TV commercials , and `` The Watchers Of The Night '' is a veritable waking nightmare .
A semi-serious literary document entitled `` The Wings Of Henry James '' is noteworthy , if only for a keenly trenchant though little-known comment on the master's difficult later period by modest Owen Wister , author of `` The Virginian '' .
James , he remarks in a letter to a friend , `` is attempting the impossible namely , to produce upon the reader , as a painting produces upon the gazer , a number of superimposed , simultaneous impressions .
He would like to put several sentences on top of each other so that you could read them all at once , and get all at once , the various shadings and complexities '' .
Equally penetrating in its fashion is the following remark by a lady in the course of a literary conversation : `` So much has already been written about everything that you can't find out anything about it '' .
Or the mildly epigrammatic utterance ( also a quotation ) : `` Woman's place is in the wrong '' .
Who but Thurber can be counted on to glean such nectareous essences ? ?
A tribute to midsummer `` bang-sashes '' seems terribly funny , though it would be hard to explain why .
`` One of them banged the sash of the window nearest my bed around midnight in July and I leaped out of sleep and out of bed .
' It's just a bat ' , said my wife reassuringly , and I sighed with relief .
' Thank God for that ' , I said ; ;
' I thought it was a human being ' '' .
In a sense , perhaps , Thurber is indebted artistically to the surrealist painter ( was it Salvador Dali ? ?
) who first conceived the startling fancy of a picture window in the abdomen .
That is , it is literally a picture window : you don't see into the viscera ; ;
you see a picture -- trees , or flowers .
This is something like what Thurber's best effects are like , if I am not mistaken .
Though no longer able to turn out his protoplasmic pen-and-ink sketches ( several old favorites are scattered through the present volume ) Thurber has retained unimpaired his vision of humor as a thing of simple , unaffected humanness .
In his concluding paragraph he writes : `` The devoted writer of humor will continue to try to come as close to truth as he can '' .
For many readers Thurber comes closer than anyone else in sight .
The latest Low is a puzzler .
The master's hand has lost none of its craft .
He is at his usual best in exposing the shams and self-deceptions of political and diplomatic life in the fifties .
The reader meets a few old friends like Blimp and the TUC horse , and becomes better acquainted with new members of the cast of characters like the bomb itself , and civilization in her classic robe watching the nuclear arms race , her hair standing straight out .
But there is a difference between the present volume and the early Low .
There is fear in the fifties as his title suggests and as his competent drawings show .
But there was terror in the thirties when the Nazis were on the loose and in those days Low struck like lightning .
Anyone can draw his own conclusions from this difference .
It might be argued that the Communists are less inhuman than the Nazis and furnish the artist with drama in a lower key .
But this argument cannot be pushed very far because the Communist system makes up for any shortcomings of its leaders in respect to corrosion .
The Communists wield a power unknown to Hitler .
And the leading issue , that of piecemeal aggression , remains the same .
This is drama enough .
Do we ourselves offer Mr. Low less of a crusade ? ?
In the thirties we would not face our enemy ; ;
that was a nightmarish situation and Low was in his element .
Now we have stood up to the Communists ; ;
we are stronger and more self-confident -- and Low cannot so easily put us to rights .
Or does the reason for less Jovian drawings lie elsewhere ? ?
It might be that Low has seen too many stupidities and that they do not outrage him now .
He writes , `` Confucius held that in times of stress one should take short views -- only up to lunchtime '' .
Whatever the cause , his mood in the fifties rarely rises above the level of the capably sardonic .
Dulles ? ?
He does not seem to have caught the subtleties of the man .
McCarthy ? ?
The skies turn dark but the clouds do not loose their wrath .
Suez ? ?
Low seems to have supported Eden at first and then relented because things worked out differently , so there is no fire in his eye .
Stalin's death , Churchill's farewell to public life , Hillary and Tensing on Everest , Quemoy and Matsu -- all subjects for a noble anger or an accolade .
Instead the cartoons seem to deal with foibles .
Their Eisenhower is insubstantial .
Did Low decide to let well enough alone when he made his selections ? ?
He often drew the bomb .
He showed puny men attacked by splendidly tyrannical machines .
And Khrushchev turned out to be prime copy for the most witty caricaturist of them all .
But , but and but .
Look in this book for weak mortals and only on occasion for virtues and vices on the heroic scale .
Read the moderately brief text , not for captions , sometimes for tart epigrams , once in a while for an explosion in the middle of your fixed ideas .
A gray fox with a patch on one eye -- confidence man , city slicker , lebensraum specialist -- tries to take over Catfish Bend in this third relaxed allegory from Mr. Burman's refreshing Louisiana animal community .
The fox is all ingratiating smiles when he arrives from New Orleans , accompanied by one wharf rat .
But like all despots , as he builds his following from among the gullible , he grows more threatening toward those who won't follow -- such solid citizens as Doc Raccoon ; ;
Judge Black , the vegetarian black snake ; ;
and the eagle , who leads the bird community when he is not too busy in Washington posing for fifty-cent pieces .
As soon as the fox has taken hold on most of the populace he imports more wharf rats , who , of course , say they are the aggrieved victims of an extermination campaign in the city .
( The followers of bullies invariably are aggrieved about the very things they plan to do to others .
) They train the mink and other animals to fight .
And pretty soon gray fox is announcing that he won't have anyone around that's against him , and setting out to break his second territorial treaty with the birds .
Robert Hillyer , the poet , writes in his introduction to this brief animal fable that Mr. Burman ought to win a Nobel Prize for the Catfish Bend series .
He may have a point in urging that decadent themes be given fewer prizes .
But it's hard to imagine Mr. Burman as a Nobel laureate on the basis of these charming but not really momentous fables .
In substance they lie somewhere between the Southern dialect animal stories of Joel Chandler Harris ( Uncle Remus ) and the polished , witty fables of James Thurber .
George Kennan's account of relations between Russia and the West from the fall of Tsarism to the end of World War 2 , is the finest piece of diplomatic history that has appeared in many years .
It combines qualities that are seldom found in one work : Scrupulous scholarship , a fund of personal experience , a sense of drama and characterization and a broad grasp of the era's great historical issues .
In short , the book , based largely on lectures delivered at Harvard University , is both reliable and readable ; ;
the author possesses an uncommonly fine English style , and he is dealing with subjects of vast importance that are highly topical for our time .
If Mr. Kennan is sometimes a little somber in his appraisals , if his analysis of how Western diplomacy met the challenge of an era of great wars and social revolutions is often critical and pessimistic -- well , the record itself is not too encouraging .
Mr. Kennan takes careful account of every mitigating circumstance in recalling the historical atmosphere in which mistaken decisions were taken .
But he rejects , perhaps a little too sweepingly , the theory that disloyal and pro-Communist influences may have contributed to the policy of appeasing Stalin which persisted until after the end of the war and reached its high point at the Yalta Conference in February , 1945 .
After all , Alger Hiss , subsequently convicted of perjury in denying that he gave secret State Department documents to Soviet agents , was at Yalta .
And Harry Dexter White , implicated in F.B.I. reports in Communist associations , was one of the architects of the Morgenthau Plan , which had it ever been put into full operation , would have simply handed Germany to Stalin .
One item in this unhappy scheme was to have Germany policed exclusively by its continental neighbors , among whom only the Soviet Union possessed real military strength .
It is quite probable , however , that stupidity , inexperience and childish adherence to slogans like `` unconditional surrender '' had more to do with the unsatisfactory settlements at the end of the war than treason or sympathy with Communism .
Mr. Kennan sums up his judgment of what went wrong this way :
dashed hope
`` You see , first of all and in a sense as the source of all other ills , the unshakeable American commitment to the principle of unconditional surrender : The tendency to view any war in which we might be involved not as a means of achieving limited objectives in the way of changes in a given status quo , but as a struggle to the death between total virtue and total evil , with the result that the war had absolutely to be fought to the complete destruction of the enemy's power , no matter what disadvantages or complications this might involve for the more distant future '' .
Recognizing that there could have been no effective negotiated peace with Hitler , he points out the shocking failure to give support to the anti-Nazi underground , which very nearly eliminated Hitler in 1944 .
A veteran diplomat with an extraordinary knowledge of Russian language , history and literature , Kennan recalls how , at the time of Hitler's attack on the Soviet Union in 1941 , he penned a private note to a State Department official , expressing the hope that `` never would we associate ourselves with Russian purposes in the areas of eastern Europe beyond her own boundaries '' .
The hope was vain .
With justified bitterness the author speaks of `` what seems to me to have been an inexcusable body of ignorance about the nature of the Russian Communist movement , about the history of its diplomacy , about what had happened in the purges , and about what had been going on in Poland and the Baltic States '' .
He also speaks of Franklin D. Roosevelt's `` puerile '' assumption that `` if only he ( Stalin ) could be exposed to the persuasive charm of someone like F.D.R. himself , ideological preconceptions would melt and Russia's co-operation with the West could be easily arranged '' .
No wonder Khrushchev's first message to President Kennedy was a wistful desire for the return of the `` good old days '' of Roosevelt .
This fascinating story begins with a sketch , rich in personal detail , of the glancing mutual impact of World War 1 , and the two instalments of the Russian Revolution .
The first of these involved the replacement of the Tsar by a liberal Provisional Government in March , 1917 ; ;
the second , the seizure of power by the Bolsheviks ( who later called themselves Communists ) in November of the same year .
As Kennan shows , the judgment of the Allied governments about what was happening in Russia was warped by the obsession of defeating Germany .
They were blind to the evidence that nothing could keep the Russian people fighting .
They attributed everything that went wrong in Russia to German influence and intrigue .
This , more than any other factor , led to the fiasco of Allied intervention .
As the author very justly says :
`` Had a world war not been in progress , there would never , under any conceivable stretch of the imagination , have been an Allied intervention in North Russia '' .
The scope and significance of this intervention have been grossly exaggerated by Communist propaganda ; ;
here Kennan , operating with precise facts and figures , performs an excellent job of debunking .
Plebian dictators
Of many passages in the book that exemplify the author's vivid style , the characterizations of the two plebeian dictators whose crimes make those of crowned autocrats pale by comparison may be selected .
On Stalin :
`` This was a man of incredible criminality , of a criminality effectively without limits ; ;
a man apparently foreign to the very experience of love , without mercy or pity ; ;
a man in whose entourage none was ever safe ; ;
a man whose hand was set against all that could not be useful to him at the moment ; ;
a man who was most dangerous of all to those who were his closest collaborators in crime .
''
And here is Kennan's image of Hitler , Stalin's temporary collaborator in the subjugation and oppression of weaker peoples , and his later enemy :
`` Behind that Charlie Chaplin moustache and that truant lock of hair that always covered his forehead , behind the tirades and the sulky silences , the passionate orations and the occasional dull evasive stare , behind the prejudices , the cynicism , the total amorality of behavior , behind even the tendency to great strategic mistakes , there lay a statesman of no mean qualities : Shrewd , calculating , in many ways realistic , endowed -- like Stalin -- with considerable powers of dissimulation , capable of playing his cards very close to his chest when he so desired , yet bold and resolute in his decisions , and possessing one gift Stalin did not possess : The ability to rouse men to fever pitch of personal devotion and enthusiasm by the power of the spoken word '' .
Two criticisms of this generally admirable and fascinating book involve the treatment of wartime diplomacy which is jagged at the edges -- there is no mention of the Potsdam Conference or the Morgenthau Plan .
And in a concluding chapter about America's stance in the contemporary world , one senses certain misplacements of emphasis and a failure to come to grips with the baffling riddle of our time : How to deal with a wily and aggressive enemy without appeasement and without war .
But one should not ask for everything .
Mr. Kennan , who has recently abandoned authorship for a new round of diplomacy as the recently appointed American ambassador to Yugoslavia , is not the only man who finds it easier to portray the past than to prescribe for the future .
The story of a quarter of a century of Soviet-Western relations is vitally important , and it is told with the fire of a first-rate historical narrator .
The Ireland we usually hear about in the theater is a place of bitter political or domestic unrest , lightened occasionally with flashes of native wit and charm .
In `` Donnybrook '' , there is quite a different Eire , a rural land where singing , dancing , fist-fighting and romancing are the thing .
There is plenty of violence , to be sure , but it is a nice violence and no one gets killed .
By and large , Robert McEnroe's adaptation of Maurice Walsh's film , `` The Quiet Man '' , provides the entertainment it set out to , and we have a lively musical show if not a superlative one .
This is the tale of one John Enright , an American who has accidentally killed a man in the prize ring and is now trying to forget about it in a quiet place where he may become a quiet man .
But Innesfree , where Ellen Roe Danaher and her bullying brother , Will , live , is no place for a man who will not use his fists .
So Enright's courting of the mettlesome Ellen is impeded considerably , thereby providing the tale which is told .
You may be sure he marries her in the end and has a fine old knockdown fight with the brother , and that there are plenty of minor scraps along the way to ensure that you understand what the word Donnybrook means .
Then there is a matchmaker , one Mikeen Flynn , a role for which Eddie Foy was happily selected .
Now there is no reason in the world why a matchmaker in Ireland should happen also to be a talented soft-shoe dancer and gifted improviser of movements of the limbs , torso and neck , except that these talents add immensely to the enjoyment of the play .
Mr. Foy is a joy , having learned his dancing by practicing it until he is practically perfect .
His matchmaking is , naturally , incidental , and it only serves Flynn right when a determined widow takes him by the ear and leads him off to matrimony .
Art Lund , a fine big actor with a great head of blond hair and a good voice , impersonates Enright .
Although he is not graced with the subtleties of romantic technique , that's not what an ex-prize fighter is supposed to have , anyway .
Joan Fagan , a fiery redhead who can impress you that she has a temper whether she really has one or not , plays Ellen , and sings the role very well , too .
If the mettle which Ellen exhibits has a bit of theatrical dross in it , never mind ; ;
she fits into the general scheme well enough .
Susan Johnson , as the widow , spends the first half of the play running a bar and singing about the unlamented death of her late husband and the second half trying to acquire a new one .
She has a good , firm delivery of songs and adds to the solid virtues of the evening .
Then there are a pair of old biddies played by Grace Carney and Sibly Bowan who may be right off the shelf of stock Irish characters , but they put such a combination of good will and malevolence into their parts that they're quite entertaining .
And in the role of Will Danaher , Philip Bosco roars and sneers sufficiently to intimidate not only one American but the whole British army , if he chose .
`` Donnybrook '' is no `` Brigadoon '' , but it does have some very nice romantic background touches and some excellent dancing .
The ballads are sweet and sad , and the music generally competent .
It sometimes threatens to linger in the memory after the final curtain , and some of it , such as the catchy `` Sez I '' , does .
`` A Toast To The Bride '' , sung by Clarence Nordstrom , playing a character called Old Man Toomey , is quite simple , direct and touching .
The men of Innesfree are got up authentically in cloth caps and sweaters , and their dancing and singing is fine .
So is that of the limber company of lasses who whirl and glide and quickstep under Jack Cole's expert choreographic direction .
The male dancers sometimes wear kilts and their performance in them is spirited and stimulating .
Rouben Ter-Arutunian , in his stage settings , often uses the scrim curtain behind which Mr. Cole has placed couples or groups who sing and set the mood for the scenes which are to follow .
There is no reason why most theatergoers should not have a pretty good time at `` Donnybrook '' , unless they are permanently in the mood of Enright when he sings about how easily he could hate the lovable Irish .
We can all breathe more easily this morning -- more easily and joyously , too -- because Joshua Logan has turned the stage show , `` Fanny '' , into a delightful and heart-warming film .
The task of taking the raw material of Marcel Pagnol's original trio of French films about people of the waterfront in Marseilles and putting them again on the screen , after their passage through the Broadway musical idiom , was a delicate and perilous one , indeed .
More than the fans of Pagnol's old films and of their heroic star , the great Raimu , were looking askance at the project .
The fans of the musical were , too .
But now the task is completed and the uncertainty resolved with the opening of the English-dialogue picture at the Music Hall yesterday .
Whether fan of the Pagnol films or stage show , whether partial to music or not , you can't help but derive joy from this picture if you have a sense of humor and a heart .
Some of the New York Philharmonic musicians who live in the suburbs spent yesterday morning digging themselves free from snow .
A tiny handful never did make the concert .
But , after a fifteen-minute delay , the substantially complete Philharmonic assembled on stage for the afternoon's proceedings .
They faced a rather small audience , as quite a few subscribers apparently had decided to forego the pleasures of the afternoon .
It was an excellent concert .
Paul Paray , rounding out his current stint with the orchestra , is a solid musician , and the Philharmonic plays for him .
Their collaboration in the Beethoven Second Symphony was lucid , intelligent and natural sounding .
It was not a heavy , ponderous Beethoven .
The music sang nicely , sprinted evenly when necessary , was properly accented and balanced .
The Franck symphonic poem , `` Psyche '' , is a lush , sweet-sounding affair that was pleasant to encounter once again .
Fortunate for the music itself , it is not too frequent a visitor ; ;
if it were , its heavily chromatic harmonies would soon become cloying .
Mr. Paray resisted the temptation to over-emphasize the melodic elements of the score .
He did not let the strings , for instance , weep , whine or get hysterical .
His interpretation was a model of refinement and accuracy .
And in the Prokofieff C major Piano Concerto , with Zadel Skolovsky as soloist , he was an admirable partner .
Mr. Skolovsky's approach to the concerto was bold , sweeping and tonally percussive .
He swept through the music with ease , in a non-sentimental and ultra-efficient manner .
An impressive technician , Mr. Skolovsky has fine rhythm , to boot .
His tone is the weakest part of his equipment ; ;
it tends to be hard and colorless .
A school of thought has it that those attributes are exactly what this concerto needs .
It is , after all , a non-romantic work ( even with the big , juicy melody of the second movement ) ; ;
and the composer himself was called the `` age of steel pianist '' .
But granted all this , one still would have liked to have heard a little more tonal nuance than Mr. Skolovsky supplied .
Taken as a whole , though , it was a strong performance from both pianist and orchestra .
Mr. Skolovsky fully deserved the warm reception he received .
A new work on the program was Nikolai Lopatnikoff's `` Festival Overture '' , receiving its first New York hearing .
This was composed last year as a salute to the automobile industry .
It is not program music , though .
It runs a little more than ten minutes , is workmanlike , busy , methodical and featureless .
`` La Gioconda '' , like it or not , is a singer's opera .
And so , of course , it is a fan's opera as well .
Snow or no , the fans were present in force at the Metropolitan Opera last night for a performance of the Ponchielli work .
So the plot creaks , the sets are decaying , the costumes are pre-historic , the orchestra was sloppy and not very well connected with what the singers were doing .
After all , the opera has juicy music to sing and the goodies are well distributed , with no less than six leading parts .
One of those parts is that of evil , evil Barnaba , the spy .
His wicked deeds were carried on by Anselmo Colzani , who was taking the part for the first time with the company .
He has the temperament and the stage presence for a rousing villain and he sang with character and strong tone .
What was lacking was a real sense of phrase , the kind of legato singing that would have added a dimension of smoothness to what is , after all , a very oily character .
Regina Resnik as Laura and Cesare Siepi as Alvise also were new to the cast , but only with respect to this season ; ;
they have both sung these parts here before .
Laura is a good role for Miss Resnik , and she gave it force , dramatic color and passion .
Mr. Siepi was , as always , a consummate actor ; ;
with a few telling strokes he characterized Alvise magnificently .
Part of this characterization was , of course , accomplished with the vocal chords .
His singing was strong and musical ; ;
unfortunately his voice was out of focus and often spread in quality .
Eileen Farrell in the title role , Mignon Dunn as La Cieca and Richard Tucker as Enzo were holdovers from earlier performances this season , and all contributed to a vigorous performance .
If only they and Fausto Cleva in the pit had got together a bit more .
`` Melodious birds sing madrigals '' saith the poet and no better description of the madrigaling of the Deller Consort could be imagined .
Their Vanguard album Madrigal Masterpieces ( BG 609 ; ;
stereo BGS 5031 ) is a good sample of the special , elegant art of English madrigal singing .
It also makes a fine introduction to the international art form with good examples of Italian and English madrigals plus several French `` chansons '' .
The English have managed to hold onto their madrigal tradition better than anyone else .
The original impulses came to England late ( in the sixteenth century ) and continue strong long after everyone else had gone on to the baroque basso continuo , sonatas , operas and the like .
Even after Elizabethan traditions were weakened by the Cromwellian interregnum , the practice of singing together -- choruses , catches and glees -- always flourished .
The English never again developed a strong native music that could obliterate the traces of an earlier great age the way , say , the opera in Italy blotted out the Italian madrigal .
Early interest
Latter-day interest in Elizabethan singing dates well back into the nineteenth century in England , much ahead of similar revivals in other countries .
As a result no comparable literature of the period is better known and better studied nor more often performed than the English madrigal .
Naturally , Mr. Deller and the other singers in his troupe are most charming and elegant when they are squarely in their tradition and singing music by their countrymen : William Byrd , Thomas Morley and Thomas Tomkins .
There is an almost instrumental quality to their singing , with a tendency to lift out important lines and make them lead the musical texture .
Both techniques give the music purity and clarity .
Claude Jannequin's vocal description of a battle ( the French equivalents of tarantara , rum-tum-tum , and boom-boom-boom are very picturesque ) is lots of fun , and the singers get a sense of grace and shape into other chansons by Jannequin and Lassus .
Only with the more sensual , intense and baroque expressions of Marenzio , Monteverdi and Gesualdo does the singing seem a little superficial .
Nevertheless , the musicality , accuracy and infectious charm of these performances , excellently reproduced , make it an attractive look-see at the period .
The works are presented chronologically .
Texts and translations are provided .
Elegance and color
The elements of elegance and color in Jannequin are strong French characteristics .
Baroque instrumental music in Italy and Germany tends to be strong , lively , intense , controlled and quite abstract .
In France , it remained always more picturesque , more dancelike , more full of flavor .
Couperin and Rameau gave titles to nearly everything they wrote , not in the later sense of `` program music '' but as a kind of nonmusical reference for the close , clear musical forms filled with keen wit and precise utterance .
Both composers turn up on new imports from France .
BAM is the unlikely name of a French recording company whose full label is Editions De La boite A Musique .
They specialize in out-of-the-way items and old French music naturally occupies a good deal of their attention .
Sonates et Concerts Royaux of Couperin Le Grand occupy two disks ( LD056 and LD060 ) and reveal the impeccable taste and workmanship of this master -- delicate , flexible and gemlike .
The Concerts -- nos. 2 , 6 , 9 , 10 and 14 are represented -- are really closer to chamber suites than to concertos in the Italian sense .
The sonatas , `` La Francaise '' , `` La Sultane '' , `` L'Astree '' and `` L'Imperiale '' , are often more elaborately worked out and , in fact , show a strong Italian influence .
Couperin also turns up along with some lesser-known contemporaries on a disk called Musique Francaise Du 18e Siecle ( BAM LD 060 ) .
Jean-Marie LeClair still is remembered a bit , but Bodin De Beismortier , Corrette and Mondonville are hardly household words .
What is interesting about these chamber works here is how they all reveal the aspect of French music that was moving toward the rococo .
The Couperin `` La Steinkerque '' , with its battle music , brevity , wit and refined simplicity , already shakes off Corelli and points towards the mid-century elegances that ended the baroque era .
If Couperin shows the fashionable trend , the others do so all the more .
All these records have close , attractive sound and the performances by a variety of instrumentalists is characteristic .
Rameau's Six Concerts En Sextuor , recorded by L'orchestre De Chambre Pierre Menet ( BAM LD 046 ) , turn out to be harpsichord pieces arranged for strings apparently by the composer himself .
The strange , delightful little character pieces with their odd and sometimes inexplicable titles are still evocative and gracious .
Maitres Allemands Des 17e et 18e Siecles contains music by Pachelbel , Buxtehude , Rosenmueller and Telemann , well performed by the Ensemble Instrumental Sylvie Spycket ( BAM LD 035 ) .
Rococo music -- a lot of it -- was played in Carnegie Recital Hall on Saturday night in the first of four concerts being sponsored this season by a new organization known as Globe Concert Arts .
Works by J. C. Bach , Anton Craft , Joseph Haydn , Giuseppe Sammartini , Comenico Dragonetti and J. G. Janitsch were performed by seven instrumentalists including Anabel Brieff , flutist , Josef Marx , oboist , and Robert Conant , pianist and harpsichordist .
Since rococo music tends to be pretty and elegant above all , it can seem rather vacuous to twentieth-century ears that have grown accustomed to the stress and dissonances of composers from Beethoven to Boulez .
Thus there was really an excess of eighteenth-century charm as one of these light-weight pieces followed another on Saturday night .
Each might find a useful place in a varied musical program , but taken together they grew quite tiresome .
The performances were variable , those of the full ensemble being generally satisfying , some by soloists proving rather trying .
Ellie Mao , soprano , and Frederick Fuller , baritone , presented a program of folksongs entitled `` East Meets West '' in Carnegie Recital Hall last night .
They were accompanied by Anna Mi Lee , pianist .
Selections from fifteen countries were sung as solos and duets in a broad range of languages .
Songs from China and Japan were reserved exclusively for Miss Mao , who is a native of China , and those of the British Isles were sung by Mr. Fuller , who is English by birth .
This was not a program intended to illustrate authentic folk styles .
On the contrary , Miss Mao and Mr. Fuller chose many of their arrangements from the works of composers such as Mendelssohn , Dvorak , Canteloube , Copland and Britten .
There was , therefore , more musical substance in the concert than might have been the case otherwise .
The performances were assured , communicative and pleasingly informal .
What was omitted from `` A Neglected Education '' were those essentials known as `` the facts of life '' .
Chabrier's little one-act operetta , presented yesterday afternoon at Town Hall , is a fragile , precious little piece , very French , not without wit and charm .
The poor uneducated newlywed , a certain Gontran De Boismassif , has his problems in getting the necessary information .
The humor of the situation can be imagined .
It all takes place in the eighteenth century .
What a silly , artificial way of life , Chabrier and his librettists chuckle .
But they wish they could bring it back .
Chabrier's delightful music stands just at the point where the classical , rationalist tradition , ( handed down to Chabrier largely in the form of operetta and salon music ) becomes virtually neo-classicism .
The musical cleverness and spirit plus a strong sense of taste and measure save a wry little joke from becoming either bawdy or mawkish .
The simple , clever production was also able to tread the thin line between those extremes .
Arlene Saunders was charming as poor Gontran .
Yes , Arlene is her name ; ;
the work uses the old eighteenth-century tradition of giving the part of a young inexperienced youth to a soprano .
Benita Valente was delightful as the young wife and John Parella was amusing as the tutor who failed to do all his tutoring .
The work was presented as the final event in the Town Hall Festival of Music .
It was paired with a Darius Milhaud opera , `` The Poor Sailor '' , set to a libretto by Jean Cocteau , a kind of Grand Guignol by the sea , a sailor returns , unrecognized , and gets done in by his wife .
With the exception of a few spots , Milhaud's music mostly churns away with his usual collection of ditties , odd harmonies , and lumbering , satiric orchestration .
Had a funny experience at Newport yesterday afternoon .
Sat there and as a woman sang , she kept getting thinner and thinner , right before my eyes , and the eyes of some 5,500 other people .
I make this observation about the lady , Miss Judy Garland , because she brought up the subject herself in telling a story about a British female reporter who flattered her terribly in London recently and then wrote in the paper the next day :
`` Judy Garland has arrived in London .
She's not chubby .
She's not plump .
She's fat '' .
But who cares , when the lady sings ? ?
Certainly not the largest afternoon audience Newport has ever had at a jazz concert and the most attentive and quiet .
They applauded every number , not only at its conclusion but also at the first statement of the theme -- sometimes at the first chord .
And Judy sang the lovely old familiar things which seemed , at times , a blessed relief from the way-out compositions of the progressive jazzmen who have dominated these proceedings .
Things like `` When You're Smiling '' , `` Almost Like Being In Love '' , `` Do It Again '' , `` Born To Wander '' , `` Alone Together '' , `` Who Cares ? ?
'' , `` Puttin' On The Ritz '' , `` How Long Has This Been Going On ? ?
'' And her own personal songs like `` The Man That Got Away '' , and the inevitable `` Over The Rainbow '' .
Miss Garland is not only one of the great singers of our time but she is one of the superb showmen .
At the start of her program there were evidences of pique .
She had held to the letter of her contract and didn't come onto the stage until well after 4 p.m. , the appointed hour , although the Music at Newport people had tried to get the program underway at 3 .
Then there was a bad delay in getting Mort Lindsey's 30-piece orchestra wedged into its chairs .
Along about 4:30 , just when it was getting to be about time to turn the audience over and toast them on the other side , Judy came on singing , in a short-skirted blue dress with a blue and white jacket that flapped in the wind .
Her bouffant coiffure was fortunately combed on the left which happened to be the direction from which a brisk breeze was blowing .
In her first song she waved away one encroaching photographer who dared approach the throne unbidden and thereafter the boys with the cameras had to unsheathe their 300 mm. lenses and shoot at extreme range .
There also came a brief contretemps with the sound mixers who made the mistake of being overheard during a quiet moment near the conclusion of `` Do It Again '' , and she made the tart observation that `` I never saw so much moving about in an audience '' .
But it didn't take Judy Garland , showman , long to realize that this sort of thing was par for the course at Newport and that you have to learn to live with it .
Before her chore was finished she was rescuing wind-blown sheets of music , trundling microphones about the stage , helping to move the piano and otherwise joining in the informal atmosphere .
And time after time she really belted out her songs .
Sometimes they struck me as horribly over-arranged -- which was the way I felt about her `` Come Rain or Come Shine '' -- and sometimes they were just plain magnificent , like her shatteringly beautiful `` Beautiful Weather '' .
To her partisan audience , such picayune haggling would have seemed nothing more than a critic striving to hold his franchise ; ;
they just sat back on their haunches and cried for more , as though they could never get enough .
They were rewarded with splendid , exciting , singing .
Her `` Rockabye Your Baby '' was as good as it can be done , and her really personal songs , like `` The Man That Got Away '' were deeply moving .
The audience wouldn't let her leave until it had heard `` Over The Rainbow '' -- although the fellow that kept crying for `` Get Happy '' had to go home unhappy , about that item anyway .
She was generous with her encores and the audience was equally so with its cheers and applause and flowers .
All went home happy except the Newport police , who feared that the throng departing at 6:35 might meet head-on the night crowd drawing nigh , and those deprived of their happy hour at the cocktail bar .
In Newport last night there were flashes of distant lightning in the northern skies .
This was perhaps symbolic of the jazz of the evening -- flashes in the distance , but no storm .
Several times it came near breaking , and there were in fact some lovely peals of thunder from Jerry Mulligan's big band , which is about as fine an aggregation as has come along in the jazz business since John Hammond found Count Basie working in a Kansas City trap .
Mulligan's band has been infected with his solid sense of swing , and what it does seems far more meaningful than most of the noise generated by the big concert aggregations .
But what is equally impressive is the delicacy and wonderful lyric quality of both the band and Mulligan's baritone sax in a fragile ballad like Bob Brookmeyer's arrangement of `` Django's Castle '' .
For subtle swinging rhythms , I could admire intensely Mulligan's version of `` Weep '' , and the fireworks went on display in `` 18 Carrots For Robert '' , a sax tribute to Johnny Hodges .
There was considerable contrast between this Mulligan performance and that of Art Blakey and The Jazz Messengers , who are able to generate a tremendous sound for such a small group .
Unfortunately , Blakey doesn't choose to work much of the time in this vein .
He prefers to have his soloist performing and thus we get only brief glimpses of what his ensemble work is like .
What we did get , however , was impressive .
A few drops of rain just before midnight , when Sarah Vaughan was in the midst of her first number , scattered the more timid members of the audience briefly , but at this hour and with Sarah on the stand , most of the listeners didn't care whether they got wet .
Miss Vaughan was back in top form , somehow mellowed and improved with the passage of time -- like a fine wine .
After the spate of female vocalists we have been having , all of whom took Sarah as a point of departure and then tried to see what they could do that might make her seem old hat , it seemed that all that has happened is to make the real thing seem better than ever .
Jazz Three open program
The evening program was opened by the Jazz Three , a Newport group consisting of Steve Budieshein on bass , Jack Warner , drums , and Don Cook , piano .
This was a continuation of a good idea which was first tried out Saturday night when the Eddie Stack group , also local talent , went on first .
Putting on local musicians at this place in the program serves a triple purpose : it saves the top flight jazz men from being wasted in this unenviable spot , when the audience is cold , restless , and in flux ; ;
it prevents late-comers from missing some of the people they have come a long way to hear , and it gives the resident musicians a chance to perform before the famous Newport audience .
The Jazz Three displayed their sound musicianship , not only in their own chosen set , but as the emergency accompanists for Al Minns & Leon James , the superb jazz dancers who have now been Newport performers for three successive years , gradually moving up from a morning seminar on the evolution of the blues to a spot on the evening program .
Julie Wilson sings
Julie Wilson , a vigorous vocalist without many wild twists , sang a set , a large part of which consisted of such seldom heard old oldies as `` Hard-Hearted Hannah , The Vamp Of Savannah '' , and the delightful `` Sunday '' .
She frosted the cake with the always reliable `` Bill Bailey '' .
From this taste of the 1920s , we leaped way out to Stan Getz's private brand of progressive jazz , which did lovely , subtle things for `` Baubles , Bangles And Beads '' , and a couple of ballards .
Getz is a difficult musician to categorize .
He plays his sax principally for beauty of tone , rather than for scintillating flights of meaningless improvisations , and he has a quiet way of getting back and restating the melody after the improvising is over .
In this he is sticking with tradition , however far removed from it he may seem to be .
Shearing takes over
George Shearing took over with his well disciplined group , a sextet consisting of vibes , guitar , bass , drums , Shearing's piano and a bongo drummer .
He met with enthusiastic audience approval , especially when he swung from jazz to Latin American things like the Mambo .
Shearing , himself , seemed to me to be playing better piano than in his recent Newport appearances .
A very casual , pleasant program -- one of those easy-going things that make Newport's afternoon programs such a relaxing delight -- was held again under sunny skies , hot sun , and a fresh breeze for an audience of at least a couple of thousands who came to Newport to hear music rather than go to the beach .
Divided almost equally into two parts , it consisted of `` The Evolution Of The Blues '' , narrated by Jon Hendricks , who had presented it last year at the Monterey , Calif. , Jazz Festival , and an hour-long session of Maynard Ferguson and his orchestra , a blasting big band .
Hendricks' story was designed for children and he had a small audience of small children right on stage with him .
Tracing the blues from its African roots among the slaves who were brought to this country and the West Indies , he stressed the close relationship between the early jazz forms and the music of the Negro churches .
Surprise addition
To help him on this religious aspect of primitive jazz he had `` Big '' Miller , as a preacher-singer and Hannah Dean , Gospel-singer , while Oscar Brown Jr. , an extremely talented young man , did a slave auctioneer's call , a field-hands' work song , and a beautifully sung Negro lullaby , `` Brown Baby '' , which was one of the truly moving moments of the festival .
One of those delightful surprise additions , which so frequently occur in jazz programs , was an excellent stint at the drums by the great Joe Jones , drumming to `` Old Man River '' , which seems to have been elected the favorite solo for the boys on the batterie at this year's concerts .
Demonstrating the primitive African rhythmic backgrounds of the Blues was Michael Babatunde Olatunji , who plays such native drums as the konga and even does a resounding job slapping his own chest .
He has been on previous Newport programs and was one of the sensations of last year's afternoon concerts .
Hendricks had Billy Mitchell , tenor sax ; ;
Pony Poindexter , alto sax ; ;
Jimmy Witherspoon , Blues singer ( and a good one ) , and the Ike Isaacs Trio , which has done such wonderful work for two afternoons now , helping him with the musical examples .
It all went very well .
Pianists who are serious about their work are likely to know the interesting material contained in Schubert's Sonatas .
Music lovers who are not familiar with this literature may hear an excellent example , played for RCA by Emil Gilels .
He has chosen Sonata Op. 53 in Aj .
The playing takes both sides of the disc .
Perhaps one of the reasons these Sonatas are not programmed more often is their great length .
Rhythmic interest , melodic beauty and the expansiveness of the writing are all qualities which hold one's attention with the Gilels playing .
His technique is ample and his musical ideas are projected beautifully .
The male chorus of the Robert Shaw Chorale sings Sea Shanties in fine style .
The group is superbly trained .
What a discussion can ensue when the title of this type of song is in question .
Do you say chantey , as if the word were derived from the French word chanter , to sing , or do you say shanty and think of a roughly built cabin , which derives its name from the French-Canadian use of the word chantier , with one of its meanings given as a boat-yard ? ?
I say chantey .
Either way , the Robert Shaw chorus sings them in fine style with every colorful word and its musical frame spelled out in terms of agreeable listening .
If your favorite song is not here it must be an unfamiliar one .
The London label offers an operatic recital by Ettore Bastianini , a baritone whose fame is international .
Murray Louis and his dance company appeared at the Henry Street Playhouse on Friday and Saturday evenings and Sunday afternoons in the premiere of his latest work , `` Signal '' , and the repetition of an earlier one , `` Journal '' .
`` Signal '' is choreographed for three male dancers to an electronic score by Alwin Nikolais .
Its abstract decor is by John Hultberg .
Program note reads as follows :
`` Take hands ; ;
this urgent visage beckons us '' .
Here , as in `` Journal '' , Mr. Louis has given himself the lion's share of the dancing , and there is no doubt that he is capable of conceiving and executing a wide variety of difficult and arresting physical movements .
Indeed , both `` Journal '' and `` Signal '' qualify as instructive catalogues of modern-dance calisthenics .
But chains of movements are not necessarily communicative , and it is in the realm of communication that the works prove disappointing .
One frequently has the feeling that the order of their movement combinations could be transposed without notable loss of effect , there is too little suggestion of organic relationship and development .
It may be , of course , that Mr. Louis is consciously trying to create works that anticipate an age of total automation .
But it may be , also , that he is merely more mindful of athletics than of esthetics at the present time .
One thing is certain , however , and that is that he is far more slavish to the detailed accents , phrasings and contours of the music he deals with than a confident dance creator need be .
' an American journey '
A brisk , satirical spoof of contemporary American mores entitled `` An American Journey '' was given its first New York performance at Hunter College Playhouse last night by the Helen Tamiris-Daniel Nagrin Dance Company .
Choreographed by Mr. Nagrin , the work filled the second half of a program that also offered the first New York showing of Miss Tamiris' `` Once Upon A Time '' as well as her `` Women's Song '' and Mr. Nagrin's `` Indeterminate Figure '' .
Eugene Lester assembled a witty and explicit score for `` An American Journey '' , and Malcolm McCormick gave it sprightly imaginative costumes .
Mr. Nagrin has described four `` places '' , each with its scenery and people , added two `` diversions '' , and concluded with `` A Toccata for the Young '' , a refreshingly underplayed interpretation of rock'n'roll dancing .
The `` places '' could be anywhere , the idiosyncrasies and foibles observed there could be anybody's , and the laugh is on us all .
But we need not mind too much , because Mr. Nagrin has expressed it through movement that is diverting and clever almost all the way .
Miss Tamiris' `` Once Upon A Time '' is a problem piece about a man and a woman and the three `` figures '' that bother them somehow .
Unfortunately , the man and woman were not made to appear very interesting at the outset and the menacing figures failed to make them any more so .
Nor did the dancing involved really seize the attention at any time .
The music here , Russell Smith's `` Tetrameron '' , sounded good .
All the performances of the evening were smooth and assured , and the sizable company , with Mr. Nagrin and Marion Scott as its leading dancers , seemed to be fine shape .
The Symphony Of The Air , greatly assisted by Van Cliburn , last night got its seven-concert Beethoven cycle at Carnegie Hall off to a good start .
At the same time the orchestra announced that next season it would be giving twenty-five programs at Carnegie , and that it would be taking these concerts to the suburbs , repeating each of them in five different communities .
This news , announced by Jerome Toobin , the orchestra's administrative director , brought applause from the 2,800 persons who filled the hall .
They showed they were glad that Carnegie would have a major orchestra playing there so often next season to take up the slack with the departure to Lincoln Center of the New York Philharmonic , the Philadelphia Orchestra and the Boston Symphony .
This season the orchestra has already taken a step toward the suburbs in that it is giving six subscription concerts for the Orchestral Society of Westchester in the County Center in White Plains .
The details of the suburban concerts next season , and the centers in which they will be given , will be announced later , Mr. Toobin said .
The concertos that Van Cliburn has been associated with in New York since his triumphant return from Russia in 1958 have been the Tchaikovsky , the Rachmaninoff Third , and the Prokofieff Third .
It was pleasant last night , therefore , to hear him do something else : a concerto he has recently recorded , `` The Emperor '' .
The young Texas pianist can make great chords ring out as well as anyone , so last night the massive sonorities of this challenging concerto were no hazard to him .
But they were not what distinguished his performance .
The elements that did were the introspective slow movement , the beautiful transition to the third movement , and the passages of filigree that laced through the bigger moments of the opening movement and the final Rondo .
Mr. Cliburn gave the slow movement some of the quality of a Chopin Nocturne .
Alfred Wallenstein , the conductor , sensitive accompanist that he is , picked up the idea and led the orchestra here with a sense of brooding , poetic mystery .
The collaboration was remarkable , as it was in both the other movements , too .
Mr. Wallenstein , who will lead all of the concerts in the cycle , also conducted the `` Leonore '' Overture No. 3 and the Fourth Symphony .
The orchestra was obviously on its mettle and it played most responsively .
And although there was plenty of vigor in the performance , the ensemble was at its best when the playing was soft and lyrical , yet full of the suppressed tension that is one of the hallmarks of Beethoven .
Igor Oistrakh will be the next soloist on Feb. 4 .
There are times when one suspects that the songs that are dropped from musical shows before they reach Broadway may really be better than many of those that are left in .
Today , in the era of the integrated musical when an individual song must contribute to the over-all development of the show , it is understandable that a song , no matter how excellent it may be on its own terms , is cut out because it does not perform the function required of it .
In the more casually constructed musicals of the Nineteen Twenties and Nineteen Thirties there would seem to have been less reason for eliminating a song of merit .
Yet there is the classic case of the Gershwins' `` The Man I Love '' .
Deemed too static when it was first heard in `` Lady Be Good '' in Philadelphia in 1924 , it was dropped from the score .
It was heard again in Philadelphia in 1927 in the first version of `` Strike Up The Band '' and again abandoned shortly before the entire show was given up .
It finally reached Broadway in the second and successful version of `` Strike Up The Band '' in 1929 .
( Still another song in `` Strike Up The Band '' -- `` I've Got A Crush On You '' -- was retrieved from a 1928 failure , `` Treasure Girl '' .
)
second chance
Like the Gershwins , Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart were loath to let a good song get away from them .
If one of Mr. Rodgers' melodies seemed to deserve a better fate than interment in Boston or the obscurity of a Broadway failure , Mr. Hart was likely to deck it out with new lyrics to give it a second chance in another show .
Several of these double entries have been collected by Ben Bagley and Michael McWhinney , along with Rodgers and Hart songs that disappeared permanently en route to New York and others that reached Broadway but have not become part of the constantly heard Rodgers and Hart repertory , in a delightfully refreshing album , Rodgers And Hart Revisited ( Spruce Records , 505 Fifth Avenue , New York ) .
Among the particular gems in this collection is the impudent opening song of `` The Garrick Gaieties '' , an impressive forecast of the wit and melody that were to come from Rodgers and Hart in the years that followed ; ;
Dorothy Loudon's raucous listing of the attractions `` At The Roxy Music Hall '' from `` I Married An Angel '' ; ;
and the incisive style with which Charlotte Rae delivers the top-drawer Hart lyrics of `` I Blush '' , a song that was cut from `` A Connecticut Yankee '' .
Altogether fifteen virtually unknown Rodgers and Hart songs are sung by a quintet of able vocalists .
Norman Paris has provided them with extremely effective orchestral accompaniment
.
Turning to the current musical season on Broadway , the most widely acclaimed of the new arrivals , How To Succeed In Business Without Really Trying , has been transferred to an original cast album ( R. C. A. Victor LOC 1066 ; ;
stereo LSO 1066 ) that has some entertaining moments , although it is scarcely as inventive as the praise elicited by the show might lead one to expect .
Robert Morse , singing with comically plaintive earnestness , carries most of the burden and is responsible for the high spots in Frank Loesser's score .
Rudy Vallee , who shares star billing with Mr. Morse , makes only two appearances .
He shares with Mr. Morse a parody of the college anthems he once sang while his second song is whisked away from him by Virginia Martin , a girl with a remarkably expressive yip in her voice .
In general , Mr. Loesser has done a more consistent job as lyricist than he has as composer .
Like Mr. Loesser , Jerry Herman is both composer and lyriist for Milk And Honey ( R. C. A. Victor LOC 1065 ; ;
stereo LSO 1065 ) , but in this case it is the music that stands above the lyrics .
For this story of an American couple who meet and fall in love in Israel , Mr. Herman has written songs that are warmly melodious and dance music that sparkles .
Resourceful voices
There are the full-bodied , resourceful voices of Robert Weede , Mimi Benzell and Tommy Rall to make the most of Mr. Herman's lilting melodies and , for an occasional change of pace , the bright humor of Molly Picon .
Mr. Herman has managed to mix musical ideas drawn from Israel and the standard American ballad style in a manner that stresses the basic tunefulness of both idioms .
Not content to create only the music and lyrics , Noel Coward also wrote the book and directed Sail Away ( Capitol WAO 1643 ; ;
stereo SWAO 1643 ) , a saga of life on a cruise ship that is not apt to be included among Mr. Coward's more memorable works .
The melodies flow along pleasantly , as Mr. Coward's songs usually do , but his lyrics have a tired , cut-to-a-familiar-pattern quality .
Elaine Stritch , who sings with a persuasively warm huskiness , belts some life into most of her songs , but the other members of the cast sound as lukewarm as Mr. Coward's songs .
With three fine Russian films in recent months on World War 2 , -- `` The House I Live In '' , `` The Cranes Are Flying '' and `` Ballad Of A Soldier '' -- we had every right to expect a real Soviet block-buster in `` The Day The War Ended '' .
It simply isn't , not by a long shot .
The Artkino presentation , with English titles , opened on Saturday at the Cameo Theatre .
Make no mistake , this Gorky Studio drama is a respectable import -- aptly grave , carefully written , performed and directed .
In describing the initial Allied occupation of a middle-sized German city , the picture has color , pictorial pull and genuinely moving moments .
Told strictly from the viewpoint of the Russian conquerors , the film compassionately peers over the shoulders of a smitten Soviet couple , at both sides of the conflict's aftermath .
Unfortunately , the whole picture hinges on this romance , at the expense of everything else .
Tenderly and rather tediously , the camera rivets on the abrupt , deep love of a pretty nurse and a uniformed teacher , complicated by nothing more than a friend they don't want to hurt .
It's the old story , war or no war , and more than one viewer may recall Hollywood's `` Titanic '' , several seasons back , when the paramount concern was for the marital discord of a society dilettante .
Not that the picture is superficial .
Under Yakov Segal's direction , it begins stirringly , as crouching Soviet and Nazi troops silently scan each other , waiting for the first surrender gesture .
One high-up camera shot is magnificent , as the Germans straggle from a cathedral , dotting a huge , cobblestone square , and drop their weapons .
Ring Of Bright Water , by Gavin Maxwell .
211 pages .
Dutton .
A5 .
Only once in a very long while comes a book that gives the reader a magic sense of sharing a rare experience .
`` Ring Of Bright Water '' by Gavin Maxwell is just that -- a haunting , warmly personal chronicle of a man , an otter , and a remote cottage in the Scottish West Highlands .
`` He has married me with a ring of bright water '' , begins the Kathleen Raine poem from which Maxwell takes his title , and it is this mystic bond between the human and natural world that the author conveys .
The place is Camusfearna , the site of a long-vanished sea-village opposite the isle of Skye .
It is a land of long fjords , few people , a single-lane road miles away -- and of wild stags , Greylag geese , wild swans , dolphins and porpoises playing in the waters .
How Maxwell recounts his first coming to Camusfearna , his furnishing the empty house with beach-drift , the subtle changes in season over ten years , is a moving experience .
Just the evocations of time and place , of passionate encounter between man and a natural world which today seems almost lost , would be enough .
But it isn't .
There is Mijbil , an otter who travelled with Maxwell -- and gave Maxwell's name to a new species -- from the Tigris marshes to his London flat .
It may sound extravagant to say that there has never been a more engaging animal in all literature .
This is not only a compliment to Mijbil , of whom there are a fine series of photographs and drawings in the book , but to the author who has catalogued the saga of a frightened otter cub's journey by plane from Iraq to London , then by train ( where he lay curled in the wash basin playing with the water tap ) to Camusfearna , with affectionate detail .
Mij , as his owner was soon to learn , had strange , inexplicable habits .
He liked to nip ear lobes of unsuspecting visitors with his needle-sharp teeth .
He preferred sleeping in bed with his head on a pillow .
Systematically he would open and ransack drawers .
Given a small ball or marbles , he would invent games and play by himself for hours .
With curiosity and elan , he explored every inch of glen , beach and burn , once stranding himself for hours on a ledge high up a sheer seventy-foot cliff and waiting with calm faith to be rescued by Maxwell , who nearly lost his life in doing so .
A year and a day of this idyll is described for the reader , one in which not only discovery of a new world of personality is charted , but self-discovery as well .
In the solitude of Camusfearna there had been no loneliness .
`` To be quite alone where there are no other human beings is sharply exhilarating ; ;
it is as though some pressure had suddenly been lifted , allowing an intense awareness a sharpening of the senses '' .
Now , with the increasing interdependence between himself and Mij came a knowledge of an obscure need , that of being trusted implicitly by some creature .
Two other people in time shared Mijbil's love : `` it remained around us three that his orb revolved when he was not away in his own imponderable world of wave and water ; ;
we were his Trinity , and he behaved towards us with a mixture of trust and abuse , passion and irritation .
In turn each of us in our own way depended , as gods do , upon his worship '' .
Yet the idyll ended .
The brief details of Mijbil's death lend depth to the story , give it an edge of ironic tragedy .
Man , to whom Mij gave endless affection and fealty , was responsible in the form of a road worker with a pickaxe who somehow becomes an abstract symbol of the savage in man .
But then , through a strange coincidence , Maxwell manages to acquire Idal , a female otter , and the fascinating story starts once more .
One is not sure who emerges as the main personality of this book -- Mijbil , with his rollicking ways , or Maxwell himself , poet , portrait painter , writer , journalist , traveller and zoologist , sensitive but never sentimental recorder of an unusual way of life , in a language at once lyrical and forceful , vivid and unabashed .
This reviewer read the book when it was first brought out in England with a sense of discovery and excitement .
Now Gavin Maxwell's Ring Of Bright Water has widened to enchant the world .
New York
-- The performances of the Comedie Francaise are the most important recent events in the New York theater .
They serve to contradict a popular notion that the Comedie merely repeats , as accurately as possible , the techniques of acting the classics that prevailed in the 17th century .
On the contrary , the old plays are continually being reinterpreted , and each new production of a classic has only a brief history at the Comedie .
Of course , the well-received revivals last longer than the others , and that further reminds us that the Comedie is not insensitive to criticism .
The directors of the Comedie do not respond to adverse notices in as docile and subservient a manner as the Broadway producers who , in two instances this season , closed their plays after one performance .
But they are aware of the world outside , they court public approval , they delight in full houses , and they occasionally dare to experiment in interpreting a dramatic classic .
In France , novel approaches to the classic French plays are frequently attempted .
The government pays a subsidy for revival of the classics , and this policy attracts experimenters who sometimes put Moliere's characters in modern dress and often achieve interesting results .
So far as I know , the Comedie has never put Moliere's people in the costumes of the 20th century , but they do reinterpret plays and characters .
Last season , the Comedie's two principal experiments came to grief , and , in consequence , we can expect fairly soon to see still newer productions of Racine's `` Phedre '' and Moliere's `` School For Wives '' .
The new `` Phedre '' was done in 17th century setting , instead of ancient Greek ; ;
perhaps that is the Comedie's equivalent for thrusting this play's characters into our own time .
The speaking of the lines seemed excessively slow and stately , possibly in an effort to capture the spirit of 17th century elegance .
A few literary men defended what they took to be an emphasis on the poetry at the expense of the drama , but the response was mainly hostile and quite violent .
The new `` School For Wives '' was interpreted according to a principle that is becoming increasingly common in the playing of classic comedy -- the idea of turning some obviously ludicrous figure into a tragic character .
Among the Moliere specialists of some years ago , Louis Jouvet tried to humanize some of the clowns , while Fernand Ledoux , often performing at the Comedie , made them more gross than Moliere may have intended .
Apparently , Jouvet and Ledoux attempted just these dissimilar approaches in the role of Arnolphe in `` The School For Wives '' .
I say `` apparently '' although I saw Jouvet as Arnolphe when he visited this country shortly before his death ; ;
by that time , he seemed to have dropped the tragic playing of the last moments of the comedy .
Arnolphe , it will be recalled , is a man of mature years who tries to preserve the innocence of his youthful wife-to-be .
The part can lend itself to serious treatment ; ;
one influential French critic remarked : `` Pity for Arnolphe comes with age '' .
Accordingly , at the Comedie last year , Jean Meyer played a sympathetic Arnolphe and drew criticism for turning the comedy into a tragedy .
But the stuff of tragedy was not truly present and the play became only comedy acted rather slowly .
Wisely , the Comedie has brought Moliere's `` Tartuffe '' on its tour and has left `` The School For Wives '' at home .
Tartuffe is the religious hypocrite who courts his benefactor's wife .
Jouvet played him as a sincere zealot , and Ledoux , at the Comedie , made him a gross buffoon , or so the historians tell us .
Louis Seigner , who formerly played the deluded benefactor opposite Ledoux , is the Tartuffe of the present production , which he himself directed .
His Tartuffe observes the golden mean .
His red face , his coarse gestures , and his lustful stares bespeak his sensuality .
But his heavenward glances and his pious speeches are not merely perfunctory ; ;
of course , they do not reflect sincerity , but they exhibit a concern to make a good job out of his pious impersonation .
Occasionally , Seigner draws some justly deserved laughs by his quick shifts from one personality to another .
The whole role , by the way , is a considerable transformation for anyone who has seen Seigner in his other parts .
His normal specialty is playing the good-natured old man , frequently stupid or deluded but never mean or sly .
Here , he is , quite persuasively , the very embodiment of meanness and slyness .
Seigner is the dean of the company , the oldest actor in point of continuous service .
In that function , he helps to rebut another legend about the Comedie .
We are often told that the Comedie has , unfortunately , life-contracts with old actors who are both mediocre and lazy , drawing their pay without much acting but probably doing real service to the Comedie by staying off the stage .
Seigner , however , is a fine actor and probably the busiest man in the company ; ;
among his other parts are the leads in `` The Bourgeois Gentleman '' and `` The Imaginary Invalid '' .
In Moliere's farce , `` The Tricks Of Scapin '' , Robert Hirsch undertakes another of the great roles .
Here some innovation is attempted .
To begin with , Scapin is a trickster in the old tradition of the clever servant who plots the strategy of courtship for his master .
Hirsch's Scapin is healthy , cheerful , energetic , revelling in his physical agility and his obvious superiority to the young gentlemen whom he serves .
Hirsch says that he has given the role certain qualities he has observed in the city toughs of the real world .
And surely his Scapin has a fresh directness , a no-nonsense quality that seems to make him his own master and nobody's servant .
Django Reinhardt , the ill-fated gypsy , was a true artist , one who demonstrated conclusively the power of art to renew itself and flow into many channels .
There is hardly a jazz guitarist in the business today who doesn't owe something to Django .
And Django owed much to Louis Armstrong .
He told once of how he switched his style of playing to jazz after listening to two old Armstrong records he bought in the Flea Market in Paris .
It was the first jazz he had heard .
Django , who was born Jean Baptiste Reinhardt in Belgium and who died in 1953 in France , was an extraordinary man .
Most of the fingers on his left hand were burned off when he fell asleep with a cigarette .
And this was before he began to play his startlingly beautiful jazz .
You can catch up with him -- if you haven't already -- on RCA-Victor's album .
`` Djangology '' , made up of tracks he recorded with Stephane Grappelly and the Quintet of the Hot Club of France .
This is a choice item and Grappely deserves mention too , of course .
He is one of the few men in history who plays jazz on a violin .
They play : `` Minor Swing '' , `` Honeysuckle Rose '' , `` Beyond The Sea '' , `` Bricktop '' , `` Heavy Artillery '' , `` Djangology '' , `` After You've Gone '' , `` Where Are You , My Love '' ? ?
`` I Saw Stars '' , `` Lover Man '' , `` Menilmontant '' and `` Swing 42 '' .
All this is great proceedings -- get the minutes .
Kid Ory , the trombonist chicken farmer , is also one of the solid anchor points of jazz .
He dates back to the days before the first sailing ship pulled into New Orleans .
His horn has blown loud and clear across the land for more years than he cares to remember .
Good Time Jazz has released a nice two-record album which he made .
He is starred against Alvin Alcorn , trumpet ; ;
Phil Gomez , clarinet ; ;
Cedric Haywood , piano ; ;
Julian Davidson , guitar ; ;
Wellman Braud , bass , and Minor Hall , drums .
The set contains `` High Society '' , `` Do What Ory Say '' , `` Down Home Rag '' , `` Careless Love '' , Jazz Me Blues '' , `` Weary Blues '' , `` Original Dixieland One-Step '' , `` Bourbon Street Parade '' , `` Panama '' , `` Toot , Toot , Tootsie '' , `` Oh Didn't He Ramble '' , `` Beale Street Blues '' , `` Maryland , My Maryland '' , `` 1919 Rag '' , `` Eh , La Bas '' , `` Mood Indigo '' , and `` Bugle Call Rag '' .
All this will serve to show off the Ory style in fine fashion and is a must for those who want to collect elements of the old-time jazz before it is too late to lay hands on the gems .
Mischa Elman shared last night's Lewisohn Stadium concert with three American composers .
His portion of the program -- and a big portion it was -- consisted of half the major nineteenth-century concertos for the violin : to wit , the Mendelssohn and the Tchaikovsky .
That is an evening of music-making that would faze many a younger man ; ;
Mr. Elman is 70 years old .
There were 8,000 persons at the Stadium who can tell their grandchildren that they heard Elman .
But , with all due respects and allowances , it must truthfully be said that what they heard was more syrupy than sweet , more mannered than musical .
The occasion was sentimental ; ;
so was the playing .
The American part of the evening consisted of Paul Creston's Dance Overture , William Schuman's `` Chester '' From `` New England Triptych '' and two works of Wallingford Riegger , Dance Rhythms , Op. 58 , and a Romanza For Strings , Op. 56A .
The Creston is purely a potboiler , with Spanish , English , French and American dances mixed into the stew .
The Riegger , with its Latin hesitation bounce , is just this side of the pale ; ;
like his sweet , attractive Romanza , it belongs to what the composer called his `` Non-Dissonant ( Mostly ) '' category of works .
The Schuman `` Chester '' takes off from an old William Billings tune with rousing woodwind and brass effect .
All these -- potboilers or no -- provided a welcome breath of fresh air in the form of lively , colorful , unstuffy works well suited for the great out-of-doors .
It was nice to have something a little up-to-date for a change .
We have Alfredo Antonini to thank for this healthy change of diet as well as the lively performances of the Stadium Symphony .
A woman who undergoes artificial insemination against the wishes of her husband is the unlikely heroine of `` A Question Of Adultery '' , yesterday's new British import at the Apollo .
Since an objective viewer might well conclude that this is not a situation that would often arise , the film's extensive discussion of the problem seems , at best , superfluous .
In its present artless , low-budget form , the subject matter seems designed to invite censorial wrath .
With Julie London enacting the central role with husky-voiced sincerity , the longsuffering heroine is at least attractive .
The explanation offered for her conduct is a misguided attempt to save her marriage to a neurotic husband left sterile as a result of an automobile accident .
Anthony Steel , as the husband , is a jealous type who argues against her course and sues for divorce , labeling her action adulterous .
The actor plays his role glumly under the lurid direction of Don Chaffey , as do Basil Sydney as his unsympathetic father and Anton Diffring as an innocent bystander .
After a protracted , hysterical trial scene more notable for the frankness of its language than for dramatic credibility , the jury , to no one's surprise , leaves the legal question unresolved .
When the husband drops the case and returns to his wife , both seem sorry they brought the matter up in the first place .
So was the audience .
London , July 4
-- For its final change of bill in its London season , the Leningrad State Kirov Ballet chose tonight to give one of those choreographic miscellanies known as a `` gala program '' at the Royal Opera House , Covent Garden .
No doubt the underlying idea was to show that for all the elegance and artistry that have distinguished its presentations thus far , it too could give a circus if it pleased .
And please it did , in every sense of the word , for it had the audience shouting much of the time in a manner far from typical of London audiences .
At the end of the program , indeed , there was a demonstration that lasted for forty-five minutes , and nothing could stop it .
Alexandre Livshitz repeated a fantastic technical bit from the closing number , `` Taras Bulba '' , but even then there was a substantial number of diehards who seemed determined not to go home at all .
Only a plea from the house manager , John Collins , finally broke up the party .
But for all the manifest intention to `` show off '' , this was a circus with a difference , for instead of descending in quality to what is known as a popular level , it added further to the evidence that this is a very great dancing company .
The `` Taras Bulba '' excerpt is a rousing version of Gogol's Ukrainian folk-tale choreographed by Bo Fenster to music of Soloviev-Sedoi .
It is danced by some thirty-five men and no women , and it contains everything in the books -- lusty comedy , gregarious cavorting , and tricks that only madmen or Russians would attempt to make the human body perform .
Yuri Soloviev , Oleg Sokolov , Alexei Zhitkov , Lev Sokolov , Yuri Korneyev and Mr. Livshitz were the chief soloists , but everybody on stage was magnificent .
At the other extreme in character was the half-hour excerpt from the Petipa-Minkus ballet `` Bayaderka '' , which opened the evening .
What a man this Petipa was ! !
And why do we in the West know so few of his ballets ? ?
This scene is a `` white ballet '' in which a lovelorn hero searches for his departed love's spirit among twenty-eight extraordinarily beautiful `` shadows '' who can all dance like nothing human -- which , of course , is altogether fitting .
The ensemble enters in a long adagio passage that is of fantastic difficulty , as well as loveliness , and adagio is the general medium of the piece .
Its ballerina , Olga Moiseyeva , performs simple miracles of beauty , and Ludmilla Alexeyeva , Inna Korneyeva and Gabrielle Komleva make up a threesome of exquisite accomplishments .
Sergei Vikulov , as the lone male , meets the competition well with some brilliant hits , but the work is designed to belong to the ladies .
The middle section of the program was made up of short numbers , naturally enough of unequal merit , but all of them pretty good at that .
They consisted of a new arrangement of `` Nutcracker '' excerpts danced stunningly by Irina Kolpakova and Mr. Sokolev , with a large ensemble ; ;
a winning little `` Snow Maiden '' variation by the adorable Galina Kekisheva ; ;
two of those poetic adagios in Greek veils ( and superb esthetic acrobacy ) by Alla Osipenko and Igor Chernishev in one case and Inna Zubkovskaya and Yuri Kornevey in the other ; ;
an amusing character pas de cinq called `` Gossiping Women '' ; ;
a stirring `` Flames Of Paris '' pas de deux by Xenia Ter-Stepanova and Alexandre Pavlovsky , and a lovely version of Fokine's `` Le Cygne '' by Olga Moiseyeva , which had to be repeated .
Vadim Kalentiev was the conductor .
It was quite an evening ! !
A year ago today , when the Democrats were fretting and frolicking in Los Angeles and John F. Kennedy was still only an able and ambitious Senator who yearned for the power and responsibility of the Presidency , Theodore H. White had already compiled masses of notes about the Presidential campaign of 1960 .
As the pace of the quadrennial American political festival accelerated , Mr. White took more notes .
He traveled alternately with Mr. Kennedy and with Richard M. Nixon .
He asked intimate questions and got frank answers from the members of what he calls the candidates' `` in-groups '' .
He assembled quantities of facts about the nature of American politics in general , as well as about the day-to-day course of the closest Presidential election in American history .
Those of us who read the papers may think we know a good deal about that election ; ;
how little we know of what there is to be known is made humiliatingly clear by Mr. White in `` The Making Of The President 1960 '' .
This is a remarkable book and an astonishingly interesting one .
What might have been only warmed-over topical journalism turns out to be an eyewitness contribution to history .
Mr. White , who is only a competent novelist , is a brilliant reporter .
His zest for specific detail , his sensitivity to emotional atmosphere , his tireless industry and his crisply turned prose all contribute to the effectiveness of his book .
A lesson in politics
As a dramatic narrative `` The Making Of The President 1960 '' is continuously engrossing .
And as an introduction to American politics it is highly educational .
The author begins this volume with a close-up of Mr. Kennedy , his family and his entourage waiting for the returns .
He then switches back to a consideration of the seven principal Presidential hopefuls : five Democrats -- Senator Hubert H. Humphrey , Senator Stuart Symington , Senator Lyndon B. Johnson , Adlai E. Stevenson and Mr. Kennedy -- and two Republicans -- Governor Rockefeller and Mr. Nixon .
Then , in chronological order , Mr. White covers the primary campaigns , the conventions and the Presidential campaign itself .
In the process he writes at length about many related matters : the importance of race , religion , local tradition , bosses , organizations , zealous volunteers and television .
Mr. White is bluntly frank in his personal opinions .
He frequently cites intimate details that seem to come straight from the horse's mouth , from numerous insiders and from Mr. Kennedy himself ; ;
but never from Mr. Nixon , who looked on reporters with suspicion and distrust .
`` Rarely in American history has there been a political campaign that discussed issues less or clarified them less '' , says Mr. White .
Mr. Nixon , he believes , has no particular political philosophy and mismanaged his own campaign .
Although a skillful politician and a courageous and honest man , Mr. Nixon , Mr. White believes , ignored his own top-level planners , wasted time and effort in the wrong regions , missed opportunities through indecision and damaged his chances on television .
Mr. Nixon is `` a broody , moody man , given to long stretches of introspection ; ;
he trusts only himself and his wife .
He is a man of major talent -- but a man of solitary , uncertain impulses .
He was above all a friend seeker , almost pathetic in his eagerness to be liked .
He wanted to identify with people and have a connection with them ; ;
the least inspiring candidate since Alfred M. Landon '' .
Mr. Kennedy , Mr. White believes , `` had mastered politics on so many different levels that no other American could match him '' .
Calm , dignified , composed , `` superbly eloquent '' , Mr. Kennedy always knew everything about everybody .
He enlisted a staff of loyal experts and of many zealous volunteers .
Every decision was made quickly on sound grounds .
Efficiency was enforced and nothing was left to chance .
Mr. Kennedy did not neglect to cultivate the personal friendship of reporters .
Mr. White admires him profoundly and leaves no doubt that he is a Democrat himself who expects Mr. Kennedy to be a fine President .
Pressures portrayed
Throughout `` The Making Of A President '' Mr. White shows wonderfully well how the pressures pile up on candidates , how decisions have constantly to be made , how fatigue and illness and nervous strain wear candidates down , how subordinates play key roles .
And he makes many interesting comments .
Here are several :
`` The root question in American politics is always : Who's the Man to See ? ?
To understand American politics is , simply , to know people , to know the relative weight of names -- who are heroes , who are straw men , who controls , who does not .
But to operate in American politics one must go a step further -- one must build a bridge to such names , establish a warmth , a personal connection '' .
`` In the hard life of politics it is well known that no platform nor any program advanced by either major American party has any purpose beyond expressing emotion '' .
`` All platforms are meaningless : the program of either party is what lies in the vision and conscience of the candidate the party chooses to lead it '' .
Nostalgia week at Lewisohn Stadium , which had begun with the appearance of the 70-year-old Mischa Elman on Tuesday night , continued last night as Lily Pons led the list of celebrities in an evening of French operatic excerpts .
Miss Pons is certainly not 70 -- no singer ever is -- and yet the rewards of the evening again lay more in paying tribute to a great figure of times gone by than in present accomplishments .
The better part of gallantry might be , perhaps , to honor her perennial good looks and her gorgeous rainbow-hued gown , and to chide the orchestra for not playing in the same keys in which she had chosen to sing .
No orchestra , however , could be expected to follow a singer through quite as many adventures with pitch as Miss Pons encountered last night .
In all fairness , there were flashes of the great stylist of yesteryear , flashes even of the old consummate vocalism .
One such moment came in the breathtaking way Miss Pons sang the cadenza to Meyerbeer's `` Shadow Song '' .
The years suddenly fell away at this point .
On the whole , however , one must wonder at just what it is that forces a beloved artist to besmirch her own reputation as time marches inexorably on .
Sharing the program was the young French-Canadian tenor Richard Verreau , making his stadium debut on this occasion .
Mr. Verreau began shakily , with a voice that tended toward an unpleasant whiteness when pushed beyond middle volume .
Later on this problem vanished , and the `` Flower Song '' from Bizet's `` Carmen '' was beautifully and intelligently projected .
Radio is easily outdistancing television in its strides to reach the minority listener .
Lower costs and a larger number of stations are the key factors making such specialization possible .
The mushrooming of FM outlets , offering concerts ( both jazz and classical ) , lectures , and other special events , is a phenomenon which has had a fair amount of publicity .
Not so well known is the growth of broadcasting operations aimed wholly or partly at Negro listeners -- an audience which , in the United States , comprises some 19,000,000 people with $20,000,000,000 to spend each year .
Of course , the nonwhite listener does his share of television watching .
He even buys a lot of the products he sees advertised -- despite the fact that the copy makes no special bid for his favor and sponsors rarely use any but white models in commercials .
But the growing number of Negro-appeal radio stations , plus evidence of strong listener support of their advertisers , give time salesmen an impressive argument as they approach new prospects .
It is estimated that more than 600 stations ( of a total of 3,400 ) do a significant amount of programing for the Negro .
At least 60 stations devote all of their time to reaching this audience in about half of the 50 states .
These and other figures and comments have been reported in a special supplement of Sponsor magazine , a trade publication for radio and TV advertisers .
For 10 years Sponsor has issued an annual survey of the size and characteristics of the Negro market and of successful techniques for reaching this market through radio .
In the past 10 years , Sponsor observes , these trends have become apparent :
Negro population in the U.S. has increased 25 per cent while the white population was growing by 18 per cent .
`` The forgotten 15 million '' -- as Sponsor tagged the Negro market in its first survey -- has become a better-remembered 19 million .
Advertisers are changing their attitudes , both as to the significance of this market and the ways of speaking to it .
Stations programing to Negro listeners are having to upgrade their shows in order to keep pace with rising educational , economic , and cultural levels .
Futhermore , the station which wants real prestige must lead or participate in community improvement projects , not simply serve on the air .
In the last decade the number of Negro-appeal radio program hours has risen at least 15 per cent , and the number of Negro-appeal stations has increased 30 per cent , according to a research man quoted by Sponsor .
A year ago the Negro Radio Association was formed to spur research which the 30-odd member stations are sure will bring in more business .
The 1960 census underscored the explosive character of the population growth .
It also brought home proof of something a casual observer might have missed : that more than half of the U.S. Negroes live outside the southeastern states .
Also , the state with the largest number of Negroes is New York -- not in the South at all .
In New York City , WLIB boasts `` more community service programs than any other Negro station '' and `` one of the largest Negro news staffs in America '' .
And WWRL's colorful mobile unit , cruising predominately Negro neighborhoods , is a frequent reminder of that station's round-the-clock dedication to nonwhite interests .
Recently , WWRL won praise for its expose of particular cases of employment agency deceit .
A half-dozen other stations in the New York area also bid for attention of the city's Negro population , up about 50 per cent in the past decade .
In all big cities outside the South , and even in small towns within the South , radio stations can be found beaming some or all of their programs at Negro listeners .
The Keystone Broadcasting System's Negro network includes 360 affiliated stations , whose signals reach more than half the total U.S. Negro population .
One question which inevitably crops up is whether such stations have a future in a nation where the Negro is moving into a fully integrated status .
Whatever the long-range impact of integration , the owners of Negro-appeal radio stations these days know they have an audience and that it is loyal .
Advertisers have discovered the tendency of Negroes to shop for brand names they have heard on stations catering to their special interests .
And many advertisers have been happy with the results of letting a Negro disc jockey phrase the commercial in his own words , working only from a fact sheet .
What sets Negro-appeal programing apart from other radio shows ? ?
Sponsor magazine notes the stress on popular Negro bands and singers ; ;
rhythm-and-blues mood music ; ;
`` race '' music , folk songs and melodies , and gospel programs .
Furthermore , news and special presentations inform the listener about groups , projects , and personalities rarely mentioned on a general-appeal station .
Advertising copy frequently takes into account matters of special Negro concern .
Sponsor quotes John McLendon of the McLendon-Ebony station group as saying that the Southern Negro is becoming conscious of quality and `` does not wish to be associated with radio which is any way degrading to his race ; ;
he tends to shy away from the hooting and hollering personalities that originally made Negro radio programs famous '' .
The sociological impact is perhaps most eloquently summed up in this quotation of J. Walter Carroll of KSAN , San Francisco :
`` Negro-appeal radio is more important to the Negro today , because it provides a direct and powerful mirror in which the Negro can hear and see his ambitions , achievements and desires .
It will continue to be important as a means of orientation to the Negro , seeking to become urbanized , as he tries to make adjustment to the urban life .
Negro radio is vitally necessary during the process of assimilation '' .
Presentation of `` The Life And Times Of John Sloan '' in the Delaware Art Center here suggests a current nostalgia for human values in art .
Staged by way of announcing the gift of a large and intimate Sloan collection by the artist's widow , Helen Farr Sloan , to the Wilmington Society of the Fine Arts , the exhibition presents a survey of Sloan's work .
From early family portraits , painted before he entered the schools of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts , the chronology extends to a group of paintings executed in his last year ( 1951 ) and still part of his estate .
Few artists have left a life work so eloquent of the period in which they lived .
Few who have painted the scenes around them have done so with so little bitterness .
The paintings , drawings , prints , and illustrations all reflect the manners , costumes , and mores of America in the first half of the present century .
Obviously Sloan's early years were influenced by his close friend Robert Henri .
As early as 1928 , however , the Sloan style began to change .
The dark pigments of the early work were superseded by a brighter palette .
The solidity of brush stroke yielded to a hatching technique that finally led to virtual abandonment of American genres in favor of single figure studies and studio nudes .
The exhibition presents all phases of Sloan's many-sided art .
In addition to the paintings are drawings , prints , and illustrations .
Sloan created such works for newspaper supplements before syndication threw him out of a job and sent him to roam the streets of New York , thereby building for America an incomparable city survey from paintings of McSorley's Saloon to breezy clotheslines on city roofs .
One of the most appealing of the rooftop canvases is `` Sun And Wind On The Roof '' , with a woman and child bracing themselves against flapping clothes and flying birds .
Although there are landscapes in the show ( one of the strongest is a vista of `` Gloucester Harbor '' in 1915 ) , the human element was the compelling factor in Sloan's art .
Significant are such canvases as `` Bleeker Street , Saturday Night '' , with its typically American crowd ( Sloan never went abroad ) ; ;
the multifigure `` Traveling Carnival '' , in which action is vivified by lighting ; ;
or `` Carmine Theater , 1912 '' , the only canvas with an ash can ( and foraging dog ) , although Sloan was a member of the famous `` Eight '' , and of the so-called `` Ash-Can School '' , a term he resented .
Not all the paintings , however , are of cities .
The exhibition touches briefly on his sojourn in the Southwest ( `` Koshare in the Dust '' , a vigorous Indian dance , and landscapes suggest the influence of western color on his palette ) .
The fact that Sloan was an extrovert , concerned primarily with what he saw , adds greatly to the value of his art as a human chronicle .
There are 151 items in the Wilmington show , including one painting by each member of the `` Eight '' , as well as work by Sloan's friends and students .
Supplementing the actual art are memorabilia -- correspondence , diaries , books from the artist's library , etc. .
All belong to the collection being given to Wilmington over a period of years by Mrs. Sloan , who has cherished such revelatory items ever since she first studied with Sloan at the Art Students League , New York , in the 1920's .
To enable students and the public to spot Sloan forgeries , the Delaware Art Center ( according to its director , Bruce St. John ) will maintain a complete file of photographs of all Sloan works , as well as a card index file .
The entire Sloan collection will be made available at the center to all serious art students and historians .
The current exhibition , which remains on view through Oct. 29 , has tapped 14 major collections and many private sources .
Any musician playing Beethoven here , where Beethoven was born , is likely to examine his own interpretations with special care .
In a sense , he is offering Bonn what its famous son ( who left as a youth ) never did -- the sound of the composer's mature style .
Robert Riefling , who gave the only piano recital of the recently concluded 23rd Beethoven Festival , penetrated deep into the spirit of the style .
His readings were careful without being fussy , and they were authoritative without being presumptuous .
The 32 C Minor Variations with which he opened moved fluently yet logically from one to another , leaving the right impression of abundance under discipline .
The D Minor Sonata , Op. 31 No. 2 , introduced by dynamically shaped arpeggios , was most engaging in its moments of quasi-recitative -- single lines in which the fingers seemed to be feeling their way toward the idea to come .
These inwardly dramatic moments showed the kind of `` opera style '' of which Beethoven was genuinely capable , but which did not take so kindly to the mechanics of staging .
Two late Sonatas , Op. 110 and 111 , were played with similar insight , the disarming simplicities of the Op. 111 Adagio made plain without ever becoming obvious .
The two were separated from each other by the Six Bagatelles of Op. 126 .
Herr Riefling , in everything he gave his large Beethoven Hall audience , proved himself as an interpreter of unobtrusive authority .
Volker Wangenheim , who conducted Bonn's Stadtisches Orchester on the following evening , made one more conscious of the process of interpretation .
Herr Wangenheim has only recently become the city's music director , and is a young man with a clear flair for the podium .
But he weighted the Eighth Symphony , at times , with a shuddering subjectivity which seemed considerably at odds with the music .
He might have been hoping , to all appearances , that this relatively sunny symphony , in conjunction with the Choral Fantasy at the end of the program , could amount to something like the Ninth ; ;
but no amount of head-tossing could make it so .
The conductor's preoccupation with the business of starting and stopping caused occasional raggedness , as with the first orchestra entrance in the Fourth Piano Concerto , but when he put his deliberations and obsequies aside and let the music move as designed , it did so with plenty of spring .
The concerto's soloist , Hans Richter-Haaser , played with compensatory ease and economy , though without the consummate plasticity to which we had been treated on the previous evening by Herr Riefling .
His was a burgomaster's Beethoven , solid and sensible .
Everybody returned after intermission for the miscellaneous sweepings of the Fantasy For Piano , Chorus , And Orchestra In C Minor , made up by its composer to fill out one of his programs .
The entrance of the Stadtisches Gesangverein ( Bonn's civic chorus ) was worth all the waiting , however , as the young Rhenish voices finally brought the music to life .
The last program of this festival , which during two weeks had sampled most compositional categories , brought the Cologne Rundfunk-Sinfonie-Orchester and Rundfunkchor to Bonn's gold-filled hall for a performance of the Missa Solemnis .
A tribe in ancient India believed the earth was a huge tea tray resting on the backs of three giant elephants , which in turn stood on the shell of a great tortoise .
This theory eventually proved inexact .
But the primitive method of explaining the unknown with what is known bears at least a symbolic resemblance to the methods of modern science .
It is the business of cosmologists , the scientists who study the nature and structure of the universe , to try to solve the great cosmic mysteries by using keys that have clicked open other doors .
These keys are the working principles of physics , mathematics and astronomy , principles which are then extrapolated , or projected , to explain phenomena of which we have little or no direct knowledge .
In the autumn of 1959 , the British Broadcasting Corporation presented a series of talks by four scientists competent in cosmology .
Three of these men discussed major theories of the universe while the other acted as a moderator .
The participants were Professor H. Bondi , professor of mathematics at King's College , London ; ;
Dr. W. B. Bonnor , reader in mathematics at Queen Elizabeth College , London ; ;
Dr. R. A. Lyttleton , a lecturer at St. John's College , Cambridge , and a reader in theoretical astronomy at the University of Cambridge ; ;
and Dr. G. J. Whitrow , reader in applied mathematics at the Imperial College of Science and Technology , London .
Dr. Whitrow functioned as moderator .
The programs were so well received by the British public that the arguments have been published in a totally engrossing little book called , `` Rival Theories Of Cosmology '' .
Dr. Bonnor begins with a discussion of the relativistic theories of the universe , based on the general theory of relativity .
First of all , and this has been calculated by observation , the universe is expanding -- that is , the galaxies are receding from each other at immense speeds .
Because of this Dr. Bonnor holds that the universe is becoming more thinly populated by stars and whatever else is there .
This expansion has been going on for an estimated eight billion years .
Expands and contracts
Dr. Bonnor supports the idea that the universe both expands and contracts , that in several billion years the expansion will slow up and reverse itself and that the contraction will set in .
Then , after many more billions of years , when all the galaxies are whistling toward a common center , this movement will slow down and reverse itself again .
Professor Bondi disagrees with the expansion-contraction theory .
He supports the steady-state theory which holds that matter is continually being created in space .
For this reason , he says , the density of the universe always remains the same even though the galaxies are zooming away in all directions .
New galaxies are forever being formed to fill in the gaps left by the receding galaxies .
If this is true , then the universe today looks just as it did millions of years ago and as it will look millions of years hence , even though the universe is expanding .
For new galaxies to be created , Professor Bondi declares , it would only be necessary for a single hydrogen atom to be created in an area the size of your living room once every few million years .
He contends this idea doesn't conflict with experiments on which the principle of conservation of matter and energy is based because some slight error must be assumed in such experiments .
Dr. Lyttleton backs the theory that we live in an electric universe and this theory starts with the behavior of protons and electrons .
Protons and electrons bear opposite electrical charges which make them attract each other , and when they are joined they make up an atom of hydrogen -- the basic building block of matter .
The charges of the electron and proton are believed to be exactly equal and opposite , but Dr. Lyttleton is not so sure .
Suppose , says Dr. Lyttleton , the proton has a slightly greater charge than the electron ( so slight it is presently immeasurable ) .
This would give the hydrogen atom a slight charge-excess .
Now if one hydrogen atom were placed at the surface of a large sphere of hydrogen atoms , it would be subject both to the gravitation of the sphere and the charge-excess of all those atoms in the sphere .
Because electrical forces ( the charge-excess ) are far more powerful than gravitation , the surface hydrogen atoms would shoot away from the sphere .
Dr. Lyttleton then imagines the universe as a large hydrogen sphere with surface atoms shooting away from it .
This , he claims , would reasonably account for the expansion of the universe .
Fleeting glimpse
This slim book , while giving the reader only a fleeting glimpse of the scientific mind confronting the universe , has the appeal that informed conversation always has .
Several photographs and charts of galaxies help the non-scientist keep up with the discussion , and the smooth language indicates the contributors were determined to avoid the jargon that seems to work its way into almost every field .
It is clear from this discussion that cosmologists of every persuasion look hopefully toward the day when a man-made satellite can be equipped with optical devices which will open up new vistas to science .
Presently , the intense absorption of ultra-violet rays in the earth's atmosphere seriously hinders ground observation .
These scientists are convinced that a telescope unclouded by the earth's gases will go a long way toward bolstering or destroying cosmic theories .
There would seem to be some small solace in the prospect that the missile race between nations is at the same time accelerating the study of the space around us , giving us a long-sought ladder from which to peer at alien regions .
In doing away with the tea tray , the elephants and the giant tortoise , science has developed a series of rationally defensible explanations of the cosmos .
And although the universe may forever defy understanding , it might even now be finding its match in the imagination of man .
`` Roots '' , the new play at the brand-new Mayfair Theater on 46th St. which has been made over from a night club , is about the intellectual and spiritual awakening of an English farm girl .
Highly successful in England before its transfer to New York , most of `` Roots '' is as relentlessly dour as the trappings of the small new theater are gaudy .
Only in its final scene , where Beatie Bryant ( Mary Doyle ) shakes off the disappointment of being jilted by her intellectual lover and proclaims her emancipation do we get much which makes worthwhile the series of boorish rustic happenings we have had to watch for most of the first two and one-half acts .
The burden of Mr. Wesker's message is that people living close to the soil ( at least in England ) are not the happy , fine , strong , natural , earthy people city-bred intellectuals imagine .
Rather they are genuine clods , proud of their cloddishness and openly antagonistic to the illuminating influences of aesthetics or thought .
They care no more for politics , says Mr. Wesker , than they do for a symphony .
Seeming to have roots in the soil , they actually have none in life .
They dwell , in short , in the doltish twilight in which peasants and serfs of the past are commonly reported to have lived .
But this is a theme which does not take so much time to state as Mr. Wesker dedicates to it .
So much untidiness of mind and household does not attract the interest of the theatergoer ( unless he has been living in a gilded palace , perhaps , and wants a real big heap of contrast ) .
The messy meals , the washing of dishes , the drying of clothes may be realism , but there is such a thing as redundancy .
Now for the good points .
Miss Doyle as Beatie has a great fund of animal spirits , a strong voice and a warm smile .
She is just home from a sojourn in London where she has become the sweetheart of a young fellow named Ronnie ( we never do see him ) and has been subjected to a first course in thinking and appreciating , including a dose of good British socialism .
But while she is able to tell her retarded family about the new world she has seen open before her , Ronnie has not been able to observe her progress , and instead of appearing at a family party to be looked over like a new bull , he sends Beatie a letter of dismissal .
Beatie , getting no sympathy for her misfortune , soon rallies and finds that although she has lost a lover she has gained her freedom .
Despite a too long sustained declamatory flight , this final speech is convincing , and we see why British audiences apparently were impressed by `` Roots '' .
There were several fairly good minor portraits in the play , including William Hansen's impersonation of a stubborn , rather pathetic father , and Katherine Squire's vigorous characterization of a farm mother who brooked no hifalutin' nonsense from her daughter , or anyone else .
But I am afraid Mr. Wesker's meat and potatoes dish isn't well seasoned enough for local audiences .
Shakespeare had a word for everything , even for the rain that disrupted Wednesday night's `` Much Ado About Nothing '' opening the season of free theatre in Central Park .
The New York Shakespeare Festival , which is using the Wollman Memorial Skating Rink while its theatre near the Belvedere is being completed , began bravely .
Joseph Papp , impassioned founder of the festival and director of `` Much Ado '' , had a vibrant , colorful production under way .
Using a wide stage resourcefully he mingled music and dance with Shakespeare's words in a spirited mixture .
The audience filled all the seats inside the Wollman enclosure and overflowed onto the lawns outside the fence .
The barbed sallies of Beatrice and Benedick , so contemporary to a public inured to the humor of insult , raised chuckles .
The simple-minded comedy of Dogberry and Verges , also familiar in a day that responds easily to jokes skimmed off the top of writers' heads , evoked laughter .
The vivacity of the masquers' party at Leonato's palace , with the Spanish motif in the music and dancing in honor of the visiting Prince of Arragon , cast a spell of delight .
As `` Much Ado '' turned serious while the insipid Claudio rejected Hero at the altar , a sprinkle began to fall .
At first hardly a person in the audience moved , although some umbrellas were opened .
But the rain came more heavily , and men and women in light summer clothes began to depart .
The grieving Hero and her father , Leonato , followed by the Friar , left the stage .
A voice on the loudspeaker system announced that if the rain let up the performance would resume in ten minutes .
More than half the audience departed .
Some remained in the Wollman enclosure , fortified with raincoats or with newspapers to cover their heads .
Others huddled under the trees outside the fence .
Twenty minutes after the interruption , although it was still raining , the play was resumed at the point in the fourth act where it had been stopped .
Beatrice ( Nan Martin ) and Benedick ( J. D. Cannon ) took their places on the stage .
In their very first speeches it was clear that Shakespeare , like a Nostradamus , had foreseen this moment .
Said Benedick : `` Lady Beatrice , have you wept all this while '' ? ?
Replied Beatrice : `` Yea , and I will weep a while longer '' .
The heavens refused to give up their weeping .
The gallant company completed Act 4 , and got through part of Act 5 .
But the final scenes could not be played .
If any among the hardy hundreds who sat in the downpour are in doubt about how it comes out , let them take comfort .
`` Much Ado '' ends happily .
The Parks Department has done an admirable job of preparing the Wollman Rink for Shakespeare .
One could hardly blame Newbold Morris , the Parks Commissioner , for devoting so much grateful mention to the department's technicians who at short notice provided the stage with its rising platforms , its balcony , its generous wings and even its impressive trapdoors for the use of the villains .
Eldon Elder , who designed the stage , also created a gay , spacious set that blended attractively with the park background and Shakespeare's lighthearted mood .
Mr. Papp has directed a performance that has verve and pace , although he has tolerated obvious business to garner easy laughs where elegance and consistency of style would be preferable .
Elisabeth Schwarzkopf sang so magnificently Saturday night at Hunter College that it seems a pity to have to register any complaints .
Still a demurrer or two must be entered .
Schwarzkopf is , of course , Schwarzkopf .
For style and assurance , for a supreme and regal bearing there is still no one who can touch her .
If the voice is just a shade less glorious than it used to be , it is still a beautiful instrument , controlled and flexible .
Put to the service of lieder of Schubert , Brahms , Strauss and Wolf in a dramatical and musical way , it made its effect with ease and precision .
But what has been happening recently might be described as creeping mannerism .
Instead of her old confidence in the simplest , purest , most moving musical expression , Miss Schwarzkopf is letting herself be tempted by the classic sin of artistic pride -- that subtle vanity that sometimes misleads a great artist into thinking that he or she can somehow better the music by bringing to it something extra , some personal dramatic touch imposed from the outside .
The symptoms Saturday night were unmistakable .
Clever light songs were overly coy , tragic songs a little too melodramatic .
There was an extra pause here , a gasp or a sigh there , here and there an extra little twist of a word or note , all in the interest of effect .
The result was like that of a beautiful painting with some of the highlights touched up almost to the point of garishness .
There were stunning musical phrases too , and sometimes the deepest kind of musical and poetic absorption and communication .
Miss Schwarzkopf and her excellent pianist , John Wustman , often achieved the highest lyrical ideals of the lieder tradition .
All the more reason why there should have been no place for the frills ; ;
Miss Schwarzkopf is too great an artist to need them .
The dance , dancers and dance enthusiasts ( 8,500 of them ) had a much better time of it at Lewisohn Stadium on Saturday night than all had had two nights earlier , when Stadium Concerts presented the first of two dance programs .
On Saturday , the orchestra was sensibly situated down on the field , the stage floor was apparently in decent condition for dancing , and the order of the program improved .
There was , additionally , a bonus for the Saturday-night patrons .
Alvin Ailey and Carmen De Lavallade appeared in the first New York performance of Mr. Ailey's `` Roots Of The Blues '' , a work given its premiere three weeks ago at the Boston Arts Festival .
Otherwise , the program included , as on Thursday , the Taras-Tchaikovsky `` Design For Strings '' , the Dollar-Britten `` Divertimento '' , the Dollar-De Banfield `` The Duel '' and the pas de deux from `` The Nutcracker '' .
Maria Tallchief and Erik Bruhn , who danced the `` Nutcracker '' pas de deux , were also seen in the Petipa-Minkus pas de deux from `` Don Quixote '' , another brilliant showpiece that displayed their technical prowess handsomely .
Among the other solo ballet dancers of the evening , Elisabeth Carroll and Ivan Allen were particularly impressive in their roles in `` The Duel '' , a work that depends so much upon the precision and incisiveness of the two principal combatants .
Mr. Ailey's `` Roots Of The Blues '' , an earthy and very human modern dance work , provided strong contrast to the ballet selections of the evening .
As Brother John Sellers sang five `` blues '' to the guitar and drum accompaniments of Bruce Langhorne and Shep Shepard , Mr. Ailey and Miss De Lavallade went through volatile dances that were by turns insinuating , threatening , contemptuous and ecstatic .
Their props were two stepladders , a chair and a palm fan .
He wore the clothes of a laborer , and she was wondrously seductive in a yellow and orange dress .
The cat-like sinuousness and agility of both dancers were exploited in leaps , lifts , crawls and slides that were almost invariably compelling in a work of strong , sometimes almost frightening , tensions .
`` Roots Of The Blues '' may not be for gentle souls , but others should welcome its super-charged impact .
`` Perhaps it is better to stay at home .
The armchair traveler preserves his illusions '' .
This somewhat cynical comment may be found in `` Blue Skies , Brown Studies '' , a collection of travel essays by William Sansom , who would never consider staying home for long .
Mr. Sansom is English , bearded , formidably cultivated , the versatile author of numerous volumes of short stories , of novels and of pieces that are neither short stories nor travel articles but something midway between .
The only man alive who seems qualified by his learning , his disposition and his addiction to a baroque luxuriance of language to inherit the literary mantle of Sacheverell Sitwell , Mr. Sansom writes of foreign parts with a dedication to decoration worthy of a pastry chef creating a wedding cake for the marriage of a Hungarian beauty ( her third ) and an American multimillionaire ( his fourth ) .
The result is rather wonderful , but so rich as to be indigestible if taken in too thick slices .
There are sixteen essays in `` Blue Skies , Brown Studies '' .
Most of them were written between 1953 and 1960 and originally appeared in various magazines .
All are well written and are overwritten .
But , even if Mr. Sansom labors too hard to extract more refinements of meaning and feeling from his travel experiences than the limits of language allow , he still can charm and astound .
Too many books and articles are just assembled by putting one word after another .
Mr. Sansom actually writes his with a nice ear for a gracefully composed sentence , with an intense relish in all the metaphorical resources of English , with a thick shower of sophisticated , cultural references .
A contemplative connoisseur
`` I like to sniff a place , and reproduce what it really smells and looks like , its color , its particular kind of life '' .
This is an exact description of what Mr. Sansom does .
He ignores guidebook facts .
He only rarely tells a personal anecdote and hardly ever sketches an individual or quotes his opinions .
It is an over-all impression Mr. Sansom strives for , an impression compounded of visual details , of a savory mixture of smells , of much loving attention to architecture and scenery , of lights and shadows , of intangibles of atmosphere and of echoes of the past .
William Sansom writes only about Europe in this book and frequently of such familiar places as London , Vienna , the French Riviera and the Norwegian fjords .
But no matter what he writes about he brings to his subject his own original mind and his own sensitive reactions .
`` A writer lives , at best , in a state of astonishment '' , he says .
`` Beneath any feeling he has of the good or the evil of the world lies a deeper one of wonder at it all .
To transmit that feeling he writes '' .
This may not be true of many writers , but it certainly is true of Mr. Sansom .
So in these pages one can share his wonder at the traditional fiesta of St. Torpetius that still persists in St. Tropez ; ;
at the sun and the heat of Mediterranean lands , always much brighter and hotter to an Englishman than to an American used to summers in New York or Kansas City ; ;
at the supreme delights to be found in one of the world's finest restaurants , La Bonne Auberge , which is situated on the seacoast twenty miles west of the Nice airport ; ;
and at the infinite variety of London .
Mr. Sansom can be eloquent in a spectacular way which recalls ( to those who recall easily ) the statues of Bernini and the gigantic paintings of Tintoretto .
He can coin a neat phrase : `` a street spattered with an invigoration of people '' ; ;
tulips with `` petals wide and shaggy as a spaniel's ears '' ; ;
after a snowstorm a landscape smelling `` of woodsmoke and clarity '' .
And , for all his lacquered , almost Byzantine self-consciousness , he can make one recognize the aptness of an unexpected comparison .
Beauty borrowed from afar
In one of his best essays Mr. Sansom expresses his enthusiasm for the many country mansions designed by Andrea Palladio himself that dot the environs of Vicenza .
How far that pedimented and pillared style has shed its influence Mr. Sansom reminds us thus :
`` The white colonnaded , cedar-roofed Southern mansion is directly traceable via the grey and buff stone of grey-skied England to the golden stucco of one particular part of the blue South , the Palladian orbit stretching out from Vicenza : the old mind of Andrea Palladio still smiles from behind many an old rocking chair on a Southern porch , the deep friezes of his architectonic music rise firm above the shallower freeze in the kitchen , his feeling for light and shade brings a glitter from a tall mint julep , his sense of columns framing the warm velvet night has brought together a million couple of mating lips '' .
Nice , even if a trifle gaudy .
`` Blue Skies , Brown Studies '' is illustrated with numerous excellent photographs .
In recent days there have been extensive lamentations over the absence of original drama on television , but not for years have many regretted the passing of new plays on radio .
WBAI , the listener-supported outlet on the frequency-modulation band , has decided to do what it can to correct this aural void .
Yesterday it offered `` Poised For Violence '' , by Jean Reavey .
WBAI is on the right track : in the sound medium there has been excessive emphasis on music and news and there could and should be a place for theatre , as the Canadian and British Broadcasting Corporations continue to demonstrate .
Unfortunately , `` Poised For Violence '' was not the happiest vehicle with which to make the point .
Mrs. Reavey's work is written for the stage -- it is mentioned for an off-Broadway production in the fall -- and , in addition , employs an avant-garde structure that particularly needs to be seen if comprehension is to be encouraged .
The play's device is to explore society's obsession with disaster and violence through the eyes of a group of artist's models who remain part of someone else's painting rather than just be themselves .
In a succession of scenes they appear in different guises -- patrons of a cafe , performers in a circus and participants in a family picnic -- but in each instance they inevitably put ugliness before beauty .
Somewhere in Mrs. Reavey's play there is both protest and aspiration of merit .
But its relentless discursiveness and determined complexity are so overwhelming that after an hour and a half a listener's stamina begins to wilt .
Moreover , her central figures are so busily fulfilling their multitudinous assignments that none emerges as an arresting individual in his own right or as a provocative symbol of mankind's ills .
But quite conceivably an altogether different impression will obtain when the work is offered in the theatre and there can be other effects to relieve the burden on the author's words .
Which in itself is an immediate reward of the WBAI experiment ; ;
good radio drama has its own special demands that badly need reinvigoration .
A weekly showcase for contemporary music , from the austere archaism of Stravinsky to the bleeps and bloops of electronic music , is celebrating its fourth anniversary this month .
Titled `` What's New In Music '' ? ?
The enterprising program is heard Saturday afternoons on radio station Aj .
The brief notes introducing each work offer salient historical or technical points , and many listeners are probably grateful for being intelligently taken by the hand through an often difficult maze .
The show is programed and written by the station's assistant continuity editor , Chuck Briefer .
The first Saturday in each month is set aside for new recordings .
Last Saturday's interesting melange included Ernst Toch , Karlheinz Stockhausen , Richard Yardumian and a brief excerpt from a new `` space '' opera by the Swedish composer , Karl-Birger Blomdahl .
Other Saturdays are devoted to studies of a selected American composer , a particular type of music or the music of a given country .
It is commendable that a regularly scheduled hour is set aside for an introduction to the contemporary musical scene .
But one wishes , when the appetite is whetted , as it was in the case of the all-too-brief excerpt from the Blomdahl opera , that further opportunity would be provided both for hearing the works in their entirety and for a closer analytical look at the sense and nature of the compositions .
The Moiseyev Dance Company dropped in at Madison Square Garden last night for the first of four farewell performances before it brings its long American tour to a close .
It is not simply giving a repetition of the program it gave during its New York engagement earlier this season , but has brought back many of the numbers that were on the bill when it paid us its first visit and won everybody's heart .
It is good to see those numbers again .
The `` Suite Of Old Russian Dances '' that opened that inaugural program with the slow and modest entrance of the maidens and built steadily into typical Moiseyev vigor and warmth ; ;
the amusing `` Yurochka '' , in which a hard-to-please young man is given his come-uppance ; ;
the lovely ( and of course vigorous ) `` Polyanka '' or `` The Meadow '' ; ;
the three Moldavian dances entitled `` Zhok '' ; ;
the sweet and funny little dance about potato planting called `` Bul'ba '' ; ;
and the hilarious picture of social life in an earlier day called `` City Quadrille '' are all just as good as one remembers them to have been , and they are welcome back .
So , for that matter , are the newer dances -- the `` Kalmuk Dance '' with its animal movements , that genial juggling act by Sergei Tsvetkov called `` The Platter '' , the rousing and beautiful betrothal celebration called `` Summer '' , `` The Three Shepherds '' of Azerbaijan hopping up on their staffs , and , of course , the trenchant `` Rock 'n' Roll '' .
As autumn starts its annual sweep , few Americans and Canadians realize how fortunate they are in having the world's finest fall coloring .
Spectacular displays of this sort are relatively rare in the entire land surface of the earth .
The only other regions so blessed are the British Isles , western Europe , eastern China , southern Chile and parts of Japan , New Zealand and Tasmania .
Their autumn tints are all fairly low keyed compared with the fiery stabs of crimson , gold , purple , bronze , blue and vermilion that flame up in North America .
Jack Frost is not really responsible for this great seasonal spectacle ; ;
in fact , a freezing autumn dulls the blaze .
The best effects come from a combination of temperate climate and plenty of late-summer rain , followed by sunny days and cool nights .
Foliage pilgrimages , either organized or individual , are becoming an autumn item for more and more Americans each year .
Below is a specific guide , keyed to the calendar .
Nature
Canada .
Late September finds Quebec's color at its peak , especially in the Laurentian hills and in the area south of the St. Lawrence River .
In the Maritime provinces farther east , the tones are a little quieter .
Ontario's foliage is most vivid from about Sept. 23 to Oct. 10 , with both Muskoka ( 100 miles north of Toronto ) and Haliburton ( 125 miles northwest of Toronto ) holding color cavalcades starting Sept. 23 .
In the Canadian Rockies , great groves of aspen are already glinting gold .
New England .
Vermont's sugar maples are scarlet from Sept. 25 to Oct. 15 , and often hit a height in early October .
New Hampshire figures its peak around Columbus Day and boasts of all its hardwoods including the yellow of the birches .
The shades tend to be a little softer in the forests that blanket so much of Maine .
In western Massachusetts and northwest Connecticut , the Berkshires are at their vibrant prime the first week of October .
Middle Atlantic states .
The Adirondacks blaze brightest in early October , choice routes being 9N from Saratoga up to Lake George and 73 and 86 in the Lake Placid area .
Farther south in New York there is a heavy haze of color over the Catskills in mid-October , notably along routes 23 and 23A .
About the same time the Alleghenies and Poconos in Pennsylvania are magnificent -- Renovo holds its annual Flaming Foliage Festival on Oct. 14 , 15 .
New Jersey's color varies from staccato to pastel all the way from the Delaware Water Gap to Cape May .
Southeast .
During the first half of October the Blue Ridge and other parts of the Appalachians provide a spectacle stretching from Maryland and West Virginia to Georgia .
The most brilliant displays are along the Skyline Drive above Virginia's Shenandoah Valley and throughout the Great Smokies between North Carolina and Tennessee .
Midwest .
Michigan , Wisconsin and Minnesota have many superb stretches of color which reach their height from the last few days of September well into October , especially in their northern sections , e.g. , Wisconsin's Vilas County whose Colorama celebration is Sept. 29-Oct. 8 .
In Wisconsin , take route 55 north of Shawano or routes 78 and 60 from Portage to Prairie Du Chien .
In Michigan , there is fine color on route 27 up to the Mackinac Straits , while the views around Marquette and Iron Mountain in the Upper Peninsula are spectacular .
In Minnesota , Arrowhead County and route 53 north to International Falls are outstanding .
Farther south , there are attractive patches all the way to the Ozarks , with some seasonal peaks as late as early November .
Illinois' Shawnee National Forest , Missouri's Iron County and the maples of Hiawatha , Kan. should be at their best in mid-October .
The West .
The Rockies have many `` Aspencades '' , which are organized tours of the aspen areas with frequent stops at vantage points for viewing the golden panoramas .
In Colorado , Ouray has its Fall Color Week Sept. 22-29 , Rye and Salida both sponsor Aspencades Sept. 24 , and Steamboat Springs has a week-long Aspencade Sept. 25-30 .
New Mexico's biggest is at Ruidoso Oct. 7 , 8 , while Alamogordo and Cloudcroft cooperate in similar trips Oct. 1 .
Americana
pleasure domes .
Two sharply contrasting places designed for public enjoyment are now on display .
The Corn Palace at Mitchell , S. Dak. , `` the world's corniest building '' , has a carnival through Sept. 23 headlining the Three Stooges and Pee Wee Hunt .
Since 1892 ears of red , yellow , purple and white corn have annually been nailed to 11 big picture panels to create huge `` paintings '' .
The 1961 theme is the Dakota Territorial Centennial , with the pictures including the Lewis and Clark expedition , the first river steamboat , the 1876 gold rush , a little red schoolhouse on the prairie , and today's construction of large Missouri River reservoirs .
The panels will stay up until they are replaced next summer .
Longwood Gardens , near Kennett Square , Pa. ( about 12 miles from Wilmington , Del. ) , was developed and heavily endowed by the late Pierre S. Du Pont .
Every Wednesday night through Oct. 11 there will be an elaborate colored fountain display , with 229 nozzles throwing jets of water up to 130 feet .
The `` peacock tail '' nozzle throws a giant fan of water 100 feet wide and 40 feet high .
The gardens themselves are open free of charge the year round , and the 192 permanent employes make sure that not a dead or wilted flower is ever seen indoors or out by any visitor .
The greenhouses alone cover 3-1/2 acres .
Books
clock without hands .
Carson McCullers , after a long , painful illness that might have crushed a less-indomitable soul , has come back with an absolute gem of a novel which jumped high on best-seller lists even before official publication .
Though the subject -- segregation in her native South -- has been thoroughly worked , Miss McCullers uses her poet's instinct and storyteller's skill to reaffirm her place at the very top of modern American writing .
Franny and Zooey .
With an art that almost conceals art , J. D. Salinger can create a fictional world so authentic that it hurts .
Here , in the most eagerly awaited novel of the season ( his first since The Catcher In The Rye , ) he tells of a college girl in flight from the life around her and the tart but sympathetic help she gets from her 25-year-old brother .
The Head Of Monsieur M. ,
Althea Urn .
A deft , hilarious satire on very high French society involving a statesman with two enviable possessions , a lovely young bride and a head containing such weighty thoughts that he has occasionally to remove it for greater comfort .
There is probably a moral in all this about `` mind vs. heart '' .
A Matter Of Life And Death .
Virgilia Peterson , a critic by trade , has turned her critical eye pitilessly and honestly on herself in an autobiography more of the mind and heart than of specific events .
It is an engrossing commentary on a repressive , upper-middle-class New York way of life in the first part of this century .
Dark Rider .
This retelling by Louis Zara of the brief , anguished life of Stephen Crane -- poet and master novelist at 23 , dead at 28 -- is in novelized form but does not abuse its tragic subject .
Rural Free ,
Rachel Peden .
Subtitled A Farmwife's Almanac Of Country Living , this is a gentle and nostalgic chronicle of the changing seasons seen through the clear , humorous eye of a Hoosier housewife and popular columnist .
Dance
Russians , Filipinos .
Two noted troupes from overseas will get the fall dance season off to a sparkling start .
Leningrad's Kirov Ballet , famous for classic purity of technique , begins its first U.S. tour in New York ( through Sept. 30 ) .
The Bayanihan Philippine Dance Company , with music and dances that depict the many facets of Filipino culture , opens its 60-city U.S. tour in San Francisco ( through Sept. 24 ) then , via one-night stands , moves on to Los Angeles ( Sept. 29 thru Oct. 1 ) .
Festivals
across the land .
With harvests in full swing , you can enjoy festivals for grapes at Sonoma , Calif. ( Sept. 22-24 ) , as well as for cranberries at Bandon , Ore. ( Sept. 28 thru Oct. 1 ) , for buckwheat at Kingwood , W. Va. ( Sept. 28-30 ) , sugar cane at New Iberia , La. ( Sept. 29 thru Oct. 1 ) and tobacco at Richmond , Va. ( Sept. 23-30 ) .
The mule is honored at Benson , N.C. ( Sept. 22 , 23 ) and at Boron , Calif. ( Sept. 24 thru Oct. 1 ) , while the legend of the Maid of the Mist is celebrated at Niagara Falls through the 24th .
The fine old mansions of U.S. Grant's old home town of Galena , Ill. are open for inspection ( Sept. 23 , 24 ) .
An archery tournament will be held at North Falmouth , Mass. ( Sept. 23 , 24 ) .
The 300th anniversaries of Staten Island ( through Sept. 23 ) and of Mamaroneck , N.Y. ( through Sept. 24 ) will both include parades and pageants .
Movies
Purple Noon :
This French film , set in Italy , is a summertime splurge in shock and terror all shot in lovely sunny scenery -- so breath-taking that at times you almost forget the horrors the movie is dealing with .
But slowly they take over as Alain Delon ( Life , Sept. 15 ) , playing a sometimes appealing but always criminal boy , casually tells a rich and foot-loose American that he is going to murder him , then does it even while the American is trying to puzzle out how Delon expects to profit from the act .
Records
Norma .
Callas devotees will have good reason to do their customary cart wheels over a new and complete stereo version of the Bellini opera .
Maria goes all out as a Druid princess who gets two-timed by a Roman big shot .
By turns , her beautifully sung Norma is fierce , tender , venomous and pitiful .
The tenor lead , Franco Corelli , and La Scala cast under Maestro Tullio Serafin are all first rate .
Jeremiah Peabody's polyunsaturated quick dissolving fast acting pleasant tasting green and purple pills .
In a raucous take-off on radio commercials , Singer Ray Stevens hawks a cure-all for neuritis , neuralgia , head-cold distress , beriberi , overweight , fungus , mungus and water on the knee .
Of the nation's eight million pleasure-boat owners a sizable number have learned that late autumn is one of the loveliest seasons to be afloat -- at least in that broad balmy region that lies below America's belt line .
Waterways are busy right now from the Virginia capes to the Texas coast .
There true yachtsmen often find November winds steadier , the waters cooler , the fish hungrier , and rivers more pleasant -- less turbulence and mud , and fewer floating logs .
More and more boats move overland on wheels ( 1.8 million trailers are now in use ) and Midwesterners taking long weekends can travel south with their craft .
In the Southwest , the fall brings out flotillas of boatsmen who find the summer too hot for comfort .
And on northern shores indomitable sailors from Long Island to Lake Michigan will beat around the buoys in dozens of frostbite races .
Some pleasant fall cruising country is mapped out below .
Boating
west coast .
Pleasure boating is just scooting into its best months in California as crisp breezes bring out craft of every size on every kind of water -- ocean , lake and reservoir .
Shore facilities are enormous -- Los Angeles harbors 5,000 boats , and Long Beach 3,000 -- but marinas are crowded everywhere .
New docks and ramps are being rushed at Playa Del Rey , Ventura , Dana Point , Oceanside and Mission Bay .
Inland , outboard motorists welcome cooler weather and the chance to buzz over Colorado River sandbars and Lake Mead .
Newest small-boat playground is the Salton Sea , a once-dry desert sinkhole which is now a salty lake 42 miles long and 235 feet below sea level .
On Nov. 11 , 12 , racers will drive their flying shingles in 5-mile laps over its 500-mile speedboat course .
In San Francisco Bay , winds are gusty and undependable during this season .
A sailboat may have a bone in her teeth one minute and lie becalmed the next .
But regattas are scheduled right up to Christmas .
The Corinthian Yacht Club in Tiburon launches its winter races Nov. 5 .
Gulf Coast .
Hurricane Carla damaged 70% of the marinas in the Galveston-Port Aransas area but fuel service is back to normal , and explorers can roam as far west as Port Isabel on the Mexican border .
Sailing activity is slowed down by Texas northers , but power cruisers can move freely , poking into the San Jacinto , Trinity and Brazos rivers ( fine tarpon fishing in the Brazos ) or pushing eastward to the pirate country of Barataria .
Off Grand Isle , yachters often visit the towering oil rigs .
The Mississippi Sound leads into a protected waterway running about 200 miles from Pascagoula to Apalachicola .
Lower Mississippi .
Memphis stinkpotters like McKellar Lake , inside the city limits , and sailors look for autumn winds at Arkabutla Lake where fall racing is now in progress .
River cruising for small craft is ideal in November .
At New Orleans , 25-mile-square Lake Pontchartrain has few squalls and year-long boating .
Marinas are less plush than the Florida type but service is good and Creole cooking better .
tva lakes .
Ten thousand twisty miles of shoreline frame the 30-odd lakes in the vast Tennessee River system that loops in and out of seven states .
When dam construction began in 1933 , fewer than 600 boats used these waters ; ;
today there are 48,500 .
A year ago it was bruited that the primary character in Erich Maria Remarque's new novel was based on the Marquis Alfonso De Portago , the Spanish nobleman who died driving in the Mille Miglia automobile race of 1957 .
If this was in fact Mr. Remarque's intention he has achieved a notable failure .
Clerfayt of `` Heaven Has No Favorites '' resembles Portago only in that he is male and a race-driver -- quite a bad race-driver , whereas Portago was a good one .
He is a dull , unformed , and aimless person ; ;
the twelfth Marquis De Portago was intelligent , purposeful , and passionate .
One looked forward to Mr. Remarque's ninth book if only because not even a reasonably good novel has yet been written grounded on automobile racing , as dramatic a sport as mankind has devised .
Unhappily , `` Heaven Has No Favorites '' does not alter the record except to add one more bad book to the list .
Mr. Remarque's conception of this novel was sound and perhaps even noble .
He proposed throwing together a man in an occupation of high hazard and a woman balanced on a knife-edge between death from tuberculosis and recovery .
His treatment of it is something else .
His heroine chooses to die -- the price of recovery , years under the strict regimen of a sanatorium , being higher than she wishes to pay .
Her lover precedes her in death , at the wheel , and presumably he too has chosen .
Between the first meeting of Clerfayt and Lillian and this dismal denouement , Mr. Remarque has laid down many pages of junior-philosophical discourse , some demure and rather fetching love-making , pleasant talk about some of the countryside and restaurants of Europe , and a modicum of automobile racing .
The ramblings on life , death , and the wonder of it all are distressing ; ;
the love-making , perhaps because it is pale and low-key when one has been conditioned to expect harsh colors and explicitness , is often charming ; ;
the automobile racing bears little relation to reality .
This latter failure is more than merely bad reportage and it is distinctly more important than it would have been had the author drawn Clerfayt as , say , a tournament golfer .
Hazards to life and limb on the golf course , while existent , are actuarially insignificant .
Race-drivers , on the other hand , are quite often killed on the circuit , and since it was obviously Mr. Remarque's intention to establish automobile racing as life in microcosm , one might reasonably have expected him to demonstrate precise knowledge not only of techniques but of mores and attitudes .
He does not .
The jacket biography describes him as a former racing driver , and he may indeed have been , although I do not recall having encountered his name either in the records or the literature .
Perhaps he has only forgotten a great deal .
The book carries a disclaimer in which Remarque says it has been necessary for him to take minor liberties with some of the procedures and formalities of racing .
The necessity is not clear to me , and , in any case , to present a case-hardened race-driver as saying he has left his car , which , or whom , he calls `` Giuseppe '' , parked `` on the Place Vendome sneering at a dozen Bentleys and Rolls-Royces parked around him '' is not a liberty ; ;
it is an absurdity .
But it is in the matter of preoccupation with death , which is the primary concern of the book , that Remarque's failure is plainest .
Clerfayt is neurotic , preoccupied , and passive .
To be human , he believes , is to seek one's own destruction : the Freudian `` death-wish '' cliche inevitably cited whenever laymen talk about auto race-drivers .
In point of fact , the race-drivers one knows are nearly always intelligent , healthy technicians who differ from other technicians only in the depth of the passion they feel for the work by which they live .
A Clerfayt may moon on about the face of Death in the cockpit ; ;
a Portago could say , as he did say to me , `` If I die tomorrow , still I have had twenty-eight wonderful years ; ;
but I shan't die tomorrow ; ;
I'll live to be 105 '' .
Clerfayt , transported , may think of the engine driving his car as `` a mystical beast under the hood '' .
The Italian master Piero Taruffi , no less sensitive , knows twice the ecstasy though he thinks of a car's adhesion to a wet two-lane road at 165 miles an hour as a matter best expressed in algebraic formulae .
Clerfayt , driving , sees himself `` a volcano whose cone funneled down to hell '' ; ;
the Briton Stirling Moss , one of the greatest virtuosi of all time , believes that ultra-fast road-circuit driving is an art form related to ballet .
Errors in technical terminology suggest that the over-all translation from the German may not convey quite everything Mr. Remarque hoped to tell us .
However , my principal objection in this sort of novel is to the hackneyed treatment of race-drivers , pilots , submariners , atomic researchers , and all the machine-masters of our age as brooding mystics or hysterical fatalists .
The west is leaderless , according to this book .
In contrast , the East is ably led by such stalwart heroes as Khrushchev , Tito , and Mao .
Against this invincible determination to communize the whole world stands a group of nations unable to agree on fundamentals and each refusing to make any sacrifice of sovereignty for the common good of all .
It is Field Marshal Montgomery's belief that in most Western countries about 60 per cent of the people do not really care about democracy or Christianity ; ;
about 30 per cent call themselves Christians in order to keep up appearances and be considered respectable , and only the last 10 per cent are genuine Christians and believers in democracy .
But these Western countries do care about themselves .
Each feels intensely national .
If , say , the Russians intended to stop Tom Jones' going to the pub , then Tom Jones would fight the Commies .
But he would fight for his own liberty rather than for any abstract principle connected with it -- such as `` cause '' .
For all practical purposes , the West stands disunited , undedicated , and unprepared for the tasks of world leadership .
With this barrage , Montgomery of Alamein launches his attack upon the blunderings of the West .
Never given to mincing words , he places heavy blame upon the faulty , uncourageous leadership of Britain and particularly America .
At war's end leadership in Western Europe passed from Britain because the Labour Government devoted its attention to the creation of a welfare state .
With Britain looking inward , overseas problems were neglected and the baton was passed on to the United States .
Montgomery believes that she started well .
`` America gave generously in economic aid and military equipment to friend and foe alike '' .
She pushed wartorn and poverty-stricken nations into prosperity , but she failed to lead them into unity and world peace .
America has divided more than she has united the West .
The reasons are that America generally believes that she can buy anything with dollars , and that she compulsively strives to be liked .
However , she really does not know how to match the quantity of dollars given away by a quality of leadership that is basically needed .
But the greater reason for fumbling , stumbling American leadership is due to the shock her pride suffered when the Japanese attacked at Pearl Harbor .
`` They are determined '' , Montgomery writes , `` not to be surprised again , and now insist on a state of readiness for war which is not only unnecessary , but also creates nervousness among other nations in the Western Alliance -- not to mention such great suspicions among the nations of the Eastern bloc that any progress towards peaceful coexistence or disarmament is not possible '' .
The net result is that under American leadership the general world situation has become bad .
To `` Monty '' , the American people , who in two previous world wars were very reluctant to join the fight , `` now look like the nation most likely to lead us all into a third World War '' .
As faulty as has been our leadership clearly the United States must be relied upon to lead .
The path to leadership is made clear .
Montgomery calls for a leader who will first put the West's own house in order .
Such a man must be able and willing to give clear and sensible advice to the whole group , a person in whom all the member nations will have absolute confidence .
This leader must be a man who lives above illusions that heretofore have shaped the foreign policy of the United States , namely that Russia will agree to a reunited Germany , that the East German government does not exist , that events in Japan in June 1960 were Communist-inspired , that the true government of China is in Formosa , that Mao was the evil influence behind Khrushchev at the Summit Conference in Paris in May 1960 , and that either China or Russia wants or expects war .
Such a leader must strengthen NATO politically , and establish that true unity about which it has always talked .
After drastically overhauling NATO , Western leadership should turn to reducing the suspicions that tear apart the East and West .
Major to this effort is to get all world powers to withdraw to their own territories , say by 1970 .
`` The West should make the central proposal ; ;
but the East would have to show sincerity in carrying it out '' .
`` But where is the leader who will handle all these things for us '' ? ?
Montgomery knew all the national leaders up to the time of Kennedy .
The man whom he would select as our leader for this great task is De Gaulle .
He alone has the wisdom , the conviction , the tenacity , and the courage to reach a decision .
But De Gaulle is buried in the cause of restoring France's lost soul .
Whoever rises to the occasion walks a treacherous path to leadership .
The leader Montgomery envisages will need to discipline himself , lead a carefully regulated and orderly life , allow time for quiet thought and reflection , adapt decisions and plans to changing situations , be ruthless , particularly with inefficiency , and be honest and morally proper .
All in all , Montgomery calls for a leader who will anticipate and dominate the events that surround him .
In looking as far back as Moses , thence to Cromwell , Napoleon , Lincoln , Churchill , and Nehru , Montgomery attempts to trace the stirrings and qualities of great men .
He believes that greatness is a marriage between the man and the times as was aptly represented by Churchill , who would very possibly have gone down in history as a political failure if it had not been for Hitler's war .
However , Montgomery makes little contribution to leadership theory and practice .
Most of what is said about his great men of history has already been said , and what has not is largely irrelevant to the contemporary scene .
Like Eisenhower , he holds the militarist's suspicion of politicians .
However , at the same time Montgomery selects as his hero De Gaulle , who is a militarist dominated by political ambitions .
`` Monty '' shows a remarkable capacity for the direct statement and an equally remarkable incapacity for giving adequate support .
For the most part , his writing rambles and jogs , preventing easy access by the reader to his true thoughts .
Nevertheless , Montgomery has stated courageously and wisely the crisis of the Western world .
It suffers from a lack of unity of purpose and respect for heroic leadership .
And it remains to be seen if the new frontier now taking form can produce the leadership and wisdom necessary to understand the current shape of events .
It is no common thing for a listener ( critical or otherwise ) to hear a singer `` live '' for the first time only after he has died .
But then , Mario Lanza was no common singer , and his whole career , public and non-public , was studded with the kind of unconventional happenings that terminate with the appearance of his first `` recital '' only when he has ceased to be a living voice .
It is a kind of justice , too , that it should originate in London's Royal Albert Hall , where , traditionally , the loudest , if not the greatest , performers have entertained the thousands it will accommodate ( RCA Victor LM 2454 , $4.98 ) .
To be sure , Lanza made numerous concert tours , here and abroad , but these did not take him to New York where the carping critic might lurk .
The reading public , the theatergoing public , the skindiving public , the horse-playing public -- all these and others fill substantial roles in U.S. life , but none is so varied , vast and vigilant as the eating public .
The Department of Agriculture averaged out U.S. food consumption last year at 1,488 lbs. per person , which , allowing for the 17 million Americans that John Kennedy said go to bed hungry every night , means that certain gluttons on the upper end must somehow down 8 lbs. or more a day .
That mother hen of the weight-height tables , the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. , clucks that 48 million Americans are overweight .
Through previous centuries , eating changed by nearly imperceptible degrees , and mostly toward just getting enough .
Now big forces buffet food .
For the first time in history , the U.S. has produced a society in which less than one-tenth of the people turn out so much food that the Government's most embarrassing problem is how to dispose inconspicuously of 100 million tons of surplus farm produce .
In this same society , the plain citizen can with an average of only one-fifth his income buy more calories than he can consume .
Refrigeration , automated processing and packaging conspire to defy season and banish spoilage .
And in the wake of the new affluence and the new techniques of processing comes a new American interest in how what people eat affects their health .
To eat is human , the nation is learning to think , to survive divine .
Fads , facts
Not all the concern for health is well directed .
From the fusty panaceas of spinach , eggs and prunes , the U.S. has progressed to curds , concentrates and capsules .
Each year , reports the American Medical Association , ten million Americans spend $900 million on vitamins , tonics and other food supplements .
At juice bars in Los Angeles' 35 `` health '' stores , a new sensation is a pink , high-protein cocktail , concocted of dried eggs , powdered milk and cherry-flavored No-Cal , which sells for 59-cents per 8-oz. glass .
Grocery stores sell dozens of foods that boast of having almost no food value at all .
But a big part of the public wants to know facts about diet and health , and a big group of U.S. scientists wants to supply them .
The man most firmly at grips with the problem is the University of Minnesota's Physiologist Ancel Keys , 57 , inventor of the wartime K ( for Keys ) ration and author of last year's bestselling Eat Well And Stay Well .
From his birch-paneled office in the Laboratory of Physiological Hygiene , under the university's football stadium in Minneapolis ( `` We get a rumble on every touchdown '' ) , blocky , grey-haired Dr. Keys directs an ambitious , $200,000-a-year experiment on diet , which spans three continents and seven nations and is still growing .
Pursuing it , he has logged 500,000 miles , suffered indescribable digestive indignities , and meticulously collected physiological data on the health and eating habits of 10,000 individuals , from Bantu tribesmen to Italian contadini .
He has measured the skinfolds ( the fleshy areas under the shoulder blades ) of Neapolitan firemen , studied the metabolism of Finnish woodcutters , analyzed the `` mealie-meal '' eaten by Capetown coloreds , and experimented on Minneapolis businessmen .
And fats .
Keys's findings , though far from complete , are likely to smash many an eating cliche .
Vitamins , eggs and milk begin to look like foods to hold down on ( though mothers' milk is still the ticket ) .
Readings of the number of milligrams of cholesterol in the blood , which seem to have value in predicting heart attacks , are becoming as routine as the electrocardiogram , which can show that the heart has suffered a symptomatic attack .
Already many an American knows his count , and rejoices or worries depending on whether it is nearer 180 ( safe ) or 250 ( dangerous ) .
Out of cholesterol come Keys's main messages so far :
Americans eat too much .
The typical U.S. daily menu , says Dr. Keys , contains 3,000 calories , should contain 2,300 .
And extra weight increases the risk of cancer , diabetes , artery disease and heart attack .
Americans eat too much fat .
With meat , milk , butter and ice cream , the calorie-heavy U.S. diet is 40% fat , and most of that is saturated fat -- the insidious kind , says Dr. Keys , that increases blood cholesterol , damages arteries , and leads to coronary disease .
Obesity : a malnutrition .
Throughout much of the world , food is still so scarce that half of the earth's population has trouble getting the 1,600 calories a day necessary to sustain life .
The deficiency diseases -- scurvy , tropical sprue , pellagra -- run rampant .
In West Africa , for example , where meat is a luxury and babies must be weaned early to make room at the breast for later arrivals , a childhood menace is kwashiorkor , or `` Red Johnny '' , a growth-stunting protein deficiency ( signs : reddish hair , bloated belly ) that kills more than half its victims , leaves the rest prey for parasites and lingering tropical disease .
In the well-fed U.S. , deficiency diseases have virtually vanished in the past 20 years .
Today , as Harrison's Principles Of Internal Medicine , a standard internist's text , puts it , `` The most common form of malnutrition is caloric excess or obesity '' .
Puritan New England regarded obesity as a flagrant symbol of intemperance , and thus a sin .
Says Keys : `` Maybe if the idea got around again that obesity is immoral , the fat man would start to think '' .
Morals aside , the fat man has plenty to worry about -- over and above the fact that no one any longer loves him .
The simple mechanical strain of overweight , says New York's Dr. Norman Jolliffe , can overburden and damage the heart `` for much the same reason that a Chevrolet engine in a Cadillac body would wear out sooner than if it were in a body for which it was built '' .
The fat man has trouble buying life insurance or has to pay higher premiums .
He has -- for unclear reasons -- a 25% higher death rate from cancer .
He is particularly vulnerable to diabetes .
He may find even moderate physical exertion uncomfortable , because excess body fat hampers his breathing and restricts his muscular movement .
Physiologically , people overeat because what Dr. Jolliffe calls the `` appestat '' is set too high .
The appestat , which adjusts the appetite to keep weight constant , is located , says Jolliffe , in the hypothalamus -- near the body's temperature , sleep and water-balance controls .
Physical exercise raises the appestat .
So does cold weather .
In moderate doses , alcohol narcotizes the appestat and enhances appetite ( the original reason for the cocktail ) ; ;
but because liquor has a high caloric value -- 100 calories per oz. -- the heavy drinker is seldom hungry .
In rare cases , diseases such as encephalitis or a pituitary tumor may damage the appestat permanently , destroying nearly all sense of satiety .
Food for frustration .
Far more frequently , overeating is the result of a psychological compulsion .
It may be fostered by frustration , depression , insecurity -- or , in children , simply by the desire to stop an anxious mother's nagging .
Some families place undue emphasis on food : conversations center on it , and rich delicacies are offered as rewards , withheld as punishment .
The result says Jolliffe : `` The child gains the feeling that food is the purpose of life '' .
Food may act as a sedative , giving temporary emotional solace , just as , for some people , alcohol does .
Reports Dr. Keys : `` A fairly common experience for us is the wife who finds her husband staying out more and more .
He may be interested in another woman , or just like being with the boys .
So she fishes around in the cupboard and hauls out a chocolate cake .
It's a matter of boredom , and the subconscious feeling that she is entitled to something , because she's being deprived of something else '' .
For the army of compulsive eaters -- from the nibblers and the gobblers to the downright gluttons -- reducing is a war with the will that is rarely won .
Physiologist Keys flatly dismisses such appetite depressants as the amphetamines ( Benzedrine , Dexedrine ) as dangerous `` crutches for a weak will '' .
Keys has no such objections to Metrecal , Quaker Oats's Quota and other 900-calorie milk formulas that are currently winning favor from dieters .
`` Metrecal is a pretty complete food '' , he says .
`` It contains large amounts of protein , vitamins and minerals .
In the quantity of 900 calories a day , anyone will lose weight on it -- 20 , 30 or 40 lbs. '' .
But Keys worries that the Metrecal drinker will never make either the psychological or physiological adjustment to the idea of eating smaller portions of food .
That remarkable cholesterol .
Despite his personal distaste for obesity ( `` disgusting '' ) , Dr. Keys has only an incidental interest in how much Americans eat .
What concerns him much more is the relationship of diet to the nation's No. 1 killer : coronary artery disease , which accounts for more than half of all heart fatalities and kills 500,000 Americans a year -- twice the toll from all varieties of cancer , five times the deaths from automobile accidents .
Cholesterol , the cornerstone of Dr. Keys's theory , is a mysterious yellowish , waxy substance , chemically a crystalline alcohol .
Scientists assume that cholesterol ( from the Greek chole , meaning bile , and sterios , meaning solid ) is somehow necessary for the formation of brain cells , since it accounts for about 2% of the brain's total solid weight .
They know it is the chief ingredient in gallstones .
They suspect it plays a role in the production of adrenal hormones , and they believe it is essential to the transport of fats throughout the circulatory system .
But they cannot fully explain the process of its manufacture by the human liver .
Although the fatty protein molecules , carried in the blood and partly composed of cholesterol , are water soluble , cholesterol itself is insoluble , and cannot be destroyed by the body .
`` A remarkable substance '' , says Dr. Keys , `` quite apart from its tendency to be deposited in the walls of arteries '' .
When thus deposited , Keys says that cholesterol is mainly responsible for the arterial blockages that culminate in heart attacks .
Explains Keys : As the fatty protein molecules travel in the bloodstream , they are deposited in the intima , or inner wall of a coronary artery .
The proteins and fats are burned off , and the cholesterol is left behind .
As cholesterol piles up , it narrows , irritates and damages the artery , encouraging formation of calcium deposits and slowing circulation .
Eventually , says Keys , one of two things happens .
A clot forms at the site , seals off the flow of blood to the heart and provokes a heart attack .
Or ( more commonly , thinks Keys ) the deposits themselves get so big that they choke off the artery's flow to the point that an infarct occurs : the heart muscle is suffocated , cells supplied by the artery die , and the heart is permanently , perhaps fatally injured .
Fats & coronaries .
Ordinarily , the human liver synthesizes only enough cholesterol to satisfy the body's needs -- for transportation of fats and for production of bile .
Even eggs and other cholesterol-rich foods , eaten in normal amounts , says Dr. Keys , do not materially affect the amount of cholesterol in the blood .
But fatty foods do .
During World War 2 , , doctors in The Netherlands and Scandinavia noted a curious fact : despite the stresses of Nazi occupation , the death rate from coronary artery disease was slowly dropping .
Not until long after the war -- 1950 , in fact -- did they get a hint of the reason .
That year , Sweden's Haqvin Malmros showed that the sinking death rate neatly coincided with increasingly severe restrictions on fatty foods .
That same year the University of California's Dr. Laurance Kinsell , timing oxidation rates of blood fats , stumbled onto the discovery that many vegetable fats cause blood cholesterol levels to drop radically , while animal fats cause them to rise .
Here Keys and others , such as Dr. A. E. Ahrens of the Rockefeller Institute , took over to demonstrate the chemical difference between vegetable and animal fats -- and even between different varieties of each .
All natural food fats fall into one of three categories -- saturated , mono-unsaturated and poly-unsaturated .
The degree of saturation depends on the number of hydrogen atoms on the fat molecule .
Saturated fats can accommodate no more hydrogens .
Mono-unsaturated fats have room for two more hydrogens on each molecule , and the poly-unsaturated fat molecule has room for at least four hydrogens .
The three fats have similar caloric values ( about 265 calories per oz. ) , but each exerts a radically different influence on blood cholesterol .
As a result , although we still make use of this distinction , there is much confusion as to the meaning of the basic terms employed .
Just what is meant by `` spirit '' and by `` matter '' ? ?
The terms are generally taken for granted as though they referred to direct and axiomatic elements in the common experience of all .
Yet in the contemporary context this is precisely what one must not do .
For in the modern world neither `` spirit '' nor `` matter '' refer to any generally agreed-upon elements of experience .
We are in a transitional stage in which many of the connotations of former usage have had to be revised or rejected .
When the words are used , we are never sure which of the traditional meanings the user may have in mind , or to what extent his revisions and rejections of former understandings correspond to ours .
One of the most widespread features of contemporary thought is the almost universal disbelief in the reality of spirit .
Just a few centuries ago the world of spirits was as populous and real as the world of material entities .
Not only in popular thought but in that of the highly educated as well was this true .
Demons , fairies , angels , and a host of other spiritual beings were as much a part of the experiential world of western man as were rocks and trees and stars .
In such a world the words `` matter '' and `` spirit '' both referred to directly known realities in the common experience of all .
In it important elements of Christianity and of the Biblical view of reality in general , which now cause us much difficulty , could be responded to quite naturally and spontaneously .
The progress of science over these last few centuries and the gradual replacement of Biblical by scientific categories of reality have to a large extent emptied the spirit world of the entities which previously populated it .
In carrying out this program science has undoubtedly performed a very considerable service for which it can claim due credit .
The objectification of the world of spirit in popular superstition had certainly gone far beyond what the experience of spirit could justify or support .
Science is fully competent to deal with any element of experience which arises from an object in space and time .
When , therefore , it turned its attention to the concrete entities with which popular imagination had peopled the world of spirit , these entities soon lost whatever status they had enjoyed as actual elements of external reality .
In doing so science has unquestionably cleared up widespread misconceptions , removed extraneous and illusory sources of fear , and dispelled many undesirable popular superstitions .
There have been , indeed , many important and valuable gains from the development of our present scientific view of the world for which we may be rightly grateful .
All this has not , however , been an unmixed blessing .
The scientific debunking of the spirit world has been in a way too successful and too thorough .
The house has been swept so clean that contemporary man has been left with no means , or at best with wholly inadequate means , for dealing with his experience of spirit .
Although the particular form of conceptualization which popular imagination had made in response to the experience of spirit was undoubtedly defective , the raw experience itself which led to such excesses remains with us as vividly as ever .
We simply find ourselves in the position of having no means for inquiring into the structure and meaning of this range of our experience .
There is no framework or structure of thought with respect to which we can organize it and no part of reality , as we know and apprehend it , with respect to which we can refer this experience .
Science has simply left us helpless and powerless in this important sector of our lives .
The situation in which we find ourselves is brought out with dramatic force in Arthur Miller's play The Crucible , which deals with the Salem witch trials .
As the play opens the audience is introduced to the community of Salem in Puritan America at the end of the eighteenth century .
Aside from a quaint concern with witches and devils which provides the immediate problem in the opening scene , it is a quite normal community .
The conversation of the characters creates an atmosphere suggesting the usual mixture of pleasures , foibles , irritations , and concerns which would characterize the common life of a normal village in any age .
There is no occasion to feel uneasy or disturbed about these people .
Instead , the audience can sit back at ease and , from the perspective of an enlightened time which no longer believes in such things , enjoy the dead seriousness with which the characters in the play take the witches and devils which are under discussion .
A teenage girl , Abigail Williams , is being sharply questioned by her minister uncle , the Reverend Samuel Parris , about a wild night affair in the woods in which she and some other girls had seemed to have had contact with these evil beings .
For all involved in this discussion the devil is a real entity who can really be confronted in the woods on a dark night , the demon world is populated with real creatures , and witches actually can be seen flying through the air .
As the play unfolds , however , the audience is subtly brought into the grip of an awful evil which grows with ominously gathering power and soon engulfs the community .
Everyone in Salem , saint and sinner alike , is swept up by it .
It is like a mysterious epidemic which , starting first with Abigail and Parris , spreads inexorably with a dreadfully growing virulence through the whole town until all have been infected by it .
It grows terribly and unavoidably in power and leaves in its wake a trail of misery , moral disintegration , and destruction .
The audience leaves the play under a spell , It is the kind of spell which the exposure to spirit in its living active manifestation always evokes .
If one asks about this play , what it is that comes upon this community and works within it with such terrible power , there is no better answer to give than `` spirit '' .
This is not to attempt to say what spirit is , but only to employ a commonly used word to designate or simply identify a common experience .
In the end the good man , John Proctor , expresses what the audience has already come to feel when he says , `` A fire , a fire is burning ! !
I hear the boot of Lucifer , I see his filthy face '' ! !
The tragic irony of the play is that the very belief in and concern with a devil who could be met in the woods and combatted with formulae set out in books was the very thing that prevented them from detecting the real devil when he came among them .
We marvel at their blindness for not seeing this .
Yet are not we of the mid-twentieth century , who rightly do not believe there is any such `` thing '' as the devil , just as bad off as they -- only in a different way ? ?
In our disbelief we think that we can no longer even use the word and so are unable to even name the elemental power which is so vividly real in this play .
We are left helpless to cope with it because we do not dare speak of it as anything real for fear that to do so would imply a commitment to that which has already been discredited and proved false .
Even Mr. Miller himself seems uncertain on this score .
In a long commentary which he has inserted in the published text of the first act of the play , he says at one point : `` However , that experience never raised a doubt in his mind as to the reality of the underworld or the existence of Lucifer's many-faced lieutenants .
And his belief is not to his discredit .
Better minds than Hale's were -- and still are -- convinced that there is a society of spirits beyond our ken '' .
( page 33 ) On the other hand , a little later on he says : `` Since 1692 a great but superficial change has wiped out God's beard and the Devil's horns , but the world is still gripped between two diametrically opposed absolutes .
The concept of unity , in which positive and negative are attributes of the same force , in which good and evil are relative , ever-changing , and always joined to the same phenomenon -- such a concept is still reserved to the physical sciences and to the few who have grasped the history of ideas .
When we see the steady and methodical inculcation into humanity of the idea of man's worthlessness -- until redeemed -- the necessity of the Devil may become evident as a weapon , a weapon designed and used time and time again in every age to whip men into a surrender to a particular church or church-state '' .
( page 34 )
Apparently he does not intend that those who read or view this play should think of the devil as being actually real .
Yet such is the dramatic power of his writing that the audience is nevertheless left in the grip of the terrible power and potency of that which came over Salem .
It casts a spell upon them so that they leave with a feeling of having been in the mysterious presence of an evil power .
It is not enough in accounting for this feeling to analyze it into the wickedness of individual people added together to produce a cumulative effect .
For this does not account for the integral , elemental power of that which grows with abounding vigor as the play unfolds , nor does it explain the strange numinous sense of presentness which comes over those who watch the play like a spell .
The reality of spirit emerges in this play in spite of the author's convictions to the contrary .
Spirit and community
There is nothing in the whole range of human experience more widely known and universally felt than spirit .
Apart from spirit there could be no community , for it is spirit which draws men into community and gives to any community its unity , cohesiveness , and permanence .
Think , for example , of the spirit of the Marine Corps .
Surely this is a reality we all acknowledge .
We cannot , of course , assign it any substance .
It is not material and is not a `` thing '' occupying space and time .
Yet it exists and has an objective reality which can be experienced and known .
So it is too with many other spirits which we all know : the spirit of Nazism or Communism , school spirit , the spirit of a street corner gang or a football team , the spirit of Rotary or the Ku Klux Klan .
Every community , if it is alive has a spirit , and that spirit is the center of its unity and identity .
In searching for clues which might lead us to a fresh apprehension of the reality of spirit , the close connection between spirit and community is likely to prove the most fruitful .
For it is primarily in community that we know and experience spirit .
It is spirit which gives life to a community and causes it to cohere .
It is the spirit which is the source of a community's drawing power by means of which others are drawn into it from the world outside so that the community grows and prospers .
Yet the spirit which lives in community is not identical with the community .
The idea of community and the idea of spirit are two distinct and separable ideas .
One characteristic of the spirit in community is its givenness .
The members of the community do not create the spirit but rather find it present and waiting for them .
It is for them a given which they and they alone possess .
The spirit of the Marine Corps was present and operative before any of the present members of it came into it .
It is they , of course , who keep it alive and preserve it so the same spirit will continue to be present in the Corps for future recruits to find as they come into it .
If the content of faith is to be presented today in a form that can be `` understanded of the people '' -- and this , it must not be forgotten , is one of the goals of the perennial theological task -- there is no other choice but to abandon completely a mythological manner of representation .
This does not mean that mythological language as such can no longer be used in theology and preaching .
The absurd notion that demythologization entails the expurgation of all mythological concepts completely misrepresents Bultmann's intention .
His point is not that mythology may not be used , but that it may no longer be regarded as the only or even the most appropriate conceptuality for expressing the Christian kerygma .
When we say that a mythological mode of thought must be completely abandoned , we mean it must be abandoned as the sole or proper means for presenting the Christian understanding of existence .
Mythological concepts may by all means still be used , but they can be used responsibly only as `` symbols '' or `` ciphers '' , that is , only if they are also constantly interpreted in nonmythological ( or existential ) terms .
The statement is often made that when Bultmann argues in this way , he `` overestimates the intellectual stumbling-block which myth is supposed to put in the way of accepting the Christian faith '' .
But this statement is completely unconvincing .
If Bultmann's own definition of myth is strictly adhered to ( and it is interesting that this is almost never done by those who make such pronouncements ) , the evidence is overwhelming that he does not at all exaggerate the extent to which the mythological concepts of traditional theology have become incredible and irrelevant .
Nor is it necessary to look for such evidence in the great urban centers of our culture that are admittedly almost entirely secularized and so profoundly estranged from the conventional forms in which the gospel has been communicated .
On the contrary , even in the heart of `` the Bible belt '' itself , as can be attested by any one who is called to work there , the industrial and technological revolutions have long been under way , together with the corresponding changes in man's picture of himself and his world .
In fact , it is in just such a situation that the profundity of Bultmann's argument is disclosed .
Although the theological forms of the past continue to exist in a way they do not in a more secularized situation , the striking thing is the rapidity with which they are being reduced to a marginal existence .
This is especially in evidence among the present generation of the suburban middle class .
Time and again in counseling and teaching , one encounters members of this group whose attempts to bring into some kind of unity the insubstantial mythologies of their `` fundamentalist '' heritage and the stubborn reality of the modern world are only too painfully obvious .
The same thing is also evidenced by the extreme `` culture-Protestantism '' so often observed to characterize the preaching and teaching of the American churches .
In the absence of a truly adequate conceptuality in which the gospel can be expressed , the unavoidable need to demythologize it makes use of whatever resources are at hand -- and this usually means one or another of the various forms of `` folk religion '' current in the situation .
This is not to say that the only explanation of the present infatuation with Norman Vincent Peale's `` cult of reassurance '' or the other types of a purely cultural Christianity is the ever-present need for a demythologized gospel .
But it is to say that this need is far more important for such infatuation than most of the pundits seem to have suspected .
However , even if the latent demand for demythologization is not nearly as widespread as we are claiming , at least among the cultured elements of the population there tends to be an almost complete indifference to the church and its traditional message of sin and grace .
To be sure , when this is pointed out , a common response among certain churchmen is to fulminate about `` the little flock '' and `` the great crowd '' and to take solace from Paul's castigation of the `` wisdom of the wise '' in the opening chapter of First Corinthians .
But can we any longer afford the luxury of such smug indigation ? ?
Can the church risk assuming that the `` folly '' of men is as dear to God as their `` wisdom '' , or , as is also commonly implied , that `` the foolishness of God '' and `` the foolishness of men '' are simply two ways of talking about the same thing ? ?
Can we continue to alienate precisely those whose gifts we so desperately need and apart from whose co-operation our mission in the world must become increasingly precarious ? ?
There is an ancient and venerable tradition in the church ( which derives , however , from the heritage of the Greeks rather than from the Bible ) that God is completely independent of his creation and so has no need of men for accomplishing his work in the world .
By analogy , the church also has been regarded as entirely independent of the `` world '' in the sense of requiring nothing from it in order to be the church .
But , as Scripture everywhere reminds us , God does have need of his creatures , and the church , a fortiori , can ill afford to do without the talents with which the world , by God's providence , presents it .
And yet this is exactly the risk we run when we assume , as we too often do , that we can continue to preach the gospel in a form that makes it seem incredible and irrelevant to cultured men .
Until we translate this gospel into a language that enlightened men today can understand , we are depriving ourselves of the very resources on which the continued success of our witness most certainly depends .
In arguing in this way , we are obviously taking for granted that a demythologized restatement of the kerygma can be achieved ; ;
and that we firmly believe this will presently become evident when we set forth reasons to justify such a conviction .
But the main point here is that even if such a restatement were not possible , the demand to demythologize the kerygma would still be unavoidable .
This is what we mean when we say this demand must be accepted without condition .
If to be a Christian means to say yes where I otherwise say no , or where I do not have the right to say anything at all , then my only choice is to refuse to be a Christian .
Expressed differently : if the price for becoming a faithful follower of Jesus Christ is some form of self-destruction , whether of the body or of the mind -- sacrificium corporis , sacrificium intellectus -- then there is no alternative but that the price remain unpaid .
This must be stressed because it is absolutely essential to the argument of this concluding chapter .
Modern man , as Dietrich Bonhoeffer has told us , has `` come of age '' ; ;
and though this process by no means represents an unambiguous gain and is , in fact , marked by the estrangement from the depths that seems to be the cost of human maturation , it is still a positive step forward ; ;
and those of us who so richly benefit from it should be the last to despise it .
In any event , it is an irreversible step , and if we are at all honest with ourselves , we will know we have no other alternative than to live in the world in which God has seen fit to place us .
To say this , of course , is to take up a position on one side of a controversy going on now for some two hundred years , or , at any rate , since the beginning of the distinctively modern period in theological thought .
We have aligned ourselves with that `` liberal '' tradition in Protestant Christianity that counts among the great names in its history those of Schleiermacher , Ritschl , Herrmann , Harnack , and Troeltsch , and more recently , Schweitzer and the early Barth and , in part at least , Bultmann .
It is to this same tradition that most of the creative figures in the last century and a half of American theology also belong .
For we must number here not only the names of Bushnell , Clarke , and Rauschenbusch , not to mention those of `` the Chicago School '' and Macintosh , but those of the brothers Niebuhr and ( if America may claim him ! !
) Tillich as well .
Finally , we may also mention the several members of the self-consciously `` neoliberal '' movement that developed at the University of Chicago and is heavily indebted philosophically to the creative work of Alfred North Whitehead .
What makes this long and diverse tradition essentially one is that those who have belonged to it have been profoundly in earnest about being modern men in a distinctively modern world .
Although they have also been concerned to stand squarely within the tradition of the apostolic church , they have exhibited no willingness whatever to sacrifice their modernity to their Christianity .
They have insisted , rather , on living fully and completely within modern culture and , so far from considering this treason to God , have looked upon it as the only way they could be faithful to him .
When we say , then , that today , in our situation , the demand for demythologization must be accepted without condition , we are simply saying that at least this much of the liberal tradition is an enduring achievement .
However much we may have to criticize liberal theology's constructive formulations , the theology we ourselves must strive to formulate can only go beyond liberalism , not behind it .
In affirming this we have already taken the decisive step in breaking the deadlock into which Bultmann's attempt to formulate such a theology has led .
For we have said , in effect , that of the two alternatives to his position variously represented by the other participants in the demythologizing discussion , only one is really an alternative .
If the demand for demythologization is unavoidable and so must be accepted by theology unconditionally , the position of the `` right '' is clearly untenable .
Whereas Bultmann's `` center '' position is structurally inconsistent and is therefore indefensible on formal grounds alone , the general position of the `` right '' , as represented , say , by Karl Barth , involves the rejection or at least qualification of the demand for demythologization and so is invalidated on the material grounds we have just considered .
It follows , then , provided the possibilities have been exhausted , that the only real alternative is the general viewpoint of the `` left '' , which has been represented on the Continent by Fritz Buri and , to some extent at least , is found in much that is significant in American and English theology .
In order to make the implications of our position as clear as possible , we may develop this argument at greater length .
We may show , first , that there cannot possibly be an alternative other than the three typically represented by Bultmann , Barth , and Buri .
To do this , it is sufficient to point out that if the principle in terms of which alternatives are to be conceived is such as to exclude more than two , then the question of a `` third '' possibility is a meaningless question .
Thus , if what is at issue is whether `` All S is P '' , it is indifferent whether `` Some S is not P '' or `` No S is P '' , since in either case the judgment in question is false .
Hence , if what is in question is whether in a given theology myth is or is not completely rejected , it is unimportant whether only a little bit of myth or a considerable quantity is accepted ; ;
for , in either event , the first possibility is excluded .
Therefore , the only conceivable alternatives are those represented , on the one hand , by the two at least apparently self-consistent but mutually exclusive positions of Buri and Barth and , on the other hand , by the third but really pseudo position ( analogous to a round square ) of Bultmann .
A second point requires more extended comment .
It will be recalled from the discussion in Section 7 that the position of the `` right '' , as represented by Barth , rests on the following thesis : The only tenable alternative to Bultmann's position is a theology that ( 1 ) rejects or at least qualifies his unconditioned demand for demythologization and existential interpretation ; ;
( 2 ) accepts instead a special biblical hermeneutics or method of interpretation ; ;
and ( 3 ) in so doing , frees itself to give appropriate emphasis to the event Jesus Christ by means of statements that , from Bultmann's point of view , are mythological .
One hundred years ago there existed in England the Association for the Promotion of the Unity of Christendom .
Representing as it did the efforts of only unauthorized individuals of the Roman and Anglican Churches , and urging a communion of prayer unacceptable to Rome , this association produced little fruit , and , in fact , was condemned by the Holy Office in 1864 .
Now again in 1961 , in England , there is perhaps nothing in the religious sphere so popularly discussed as Christian unity .
The Church Unity Octave , January 18-25 , was enthusiastically devoted to prayer and discussion by the various churches .
Many people seem hopeful , yet it is difficult to predict whether or not there will be any more real attainment of Christian unity in 1961 than there was in 1861 .
But it must be readily seen that the religious picture in England has so greatly changed during these hundred years as to engender hope , at least on the Catholic side .
For the `` tide is well on the turn '' , as the London Catholic weekly Universe has written .
I came to England last summer to do research on the unpublished letters of Cardinal Newman .
As an American Catholic of Irish ancestry , I came with certain preconceptions and expectations ; ;
being intellectually influenced by Newman and the general 19th-century literature of England , I knew only a Protestant-dominated country .
Since arriving here , however , I have formed a far different religious picture of present-day England .
In representing part of this new picture , I will be recounting some of my own personal experiences , reactions and judgments ; ;
but my primary aim is to transcribe what Englishmen themselves are saying and writing and implying about the Roman and Anglican Churches and about the present religious state of England .
Since the Protestant clergy for the most part wear gray or some variant from the wholly black suit , my Roman collar and black garb usually identify me in England as a Roman Catholic cleric .
In any case , I have always been treated with the utmost courtesy by Englishmen , even in Devonshire and Cornwall , where anti-Catholic feeling has supposedly existed the strongest and longest .
Nowhere have I seen public expression of anti-Catholicism .
On my first Guy Fawkes Day here , I found Catholics as well as non-Catholics celebrating with the traditional fireworks and bonfires , and was told that most Englishmen either do not know or are not concerned with the historical significance of the day .
A Birmingham newspaper printed in a column for children an article entitled `` The True Story of Guy Fawkes '' , which began :
`` When you pile your `` guy '' on the bonfire tomorrow night , I wonder how much of the true story of Guy Fawkes you will remember ? ?
In the 355 years since the first Guy Fawkes Night , much of the story has been forgotten , so here is a reminder '' .
The article proceeded to give an inaccurate account of a Catholic plot to kill King James 1 .
In spite of the increase in numbers and prestige brought about by the conversions of Newman and other Tractarians of the 1840's and 1850's , the Catholic segment of England one hundred years ago was a very small one ( four per cent , or 800,000 ) which did not enjoy a gracious hearing from the general public .
The return of the Catholic hierarchy in 1850 was looked upon with indignant disapprobation and , in fact , was charged with being a gesture of disloyalty .
In 1864 Newman professedly had to write his Apologia with his keenest feelings in order to be believed and to command a fair hearing from English readers .
Now , in 1961 , the Catholic population of England is still quite small ( ten per cent , or 5 million ) ; ;
yet it represents a very considerable percentage of the churchgoing population .
A Protestant woman marveled to me over the large crowds going in and out of the Birmingham Oratory ( Catholic ) Church on Sunday mornings .
She found this a marvel because , as she said , only six per cent of English people are churchgoers .
She may not have been exact on this number , but others here feel quite certain that the percentage would be less than ten .
From many sides come remarks that Protestant churches are badly attended and the large medieval cathedrals look all but empty during services .
A Catholic priest recently recounted how in the chapel of a large city university , following Anglican evensong , at which there was a congregation of twelve , he celebrated Mass before more than a hundred .
The Protestant themselves are the first to admit the great falling off in effective membership in their churches .
According to a newspaper report of the 1961 statistics of the Church of England , the `` total of confirmed members is 9,748,000 , but only 2,887,671 are registered on the parochial church rolls '' , and `` over 27 million people in England are baptized into the Church of England , but roughly only a tenth of them continue '' .
An amazing article in the Manchester Guardian of last November , entitled `` Fate Of Redundant Churches '' , states than an Archbishops' Commission `` reported last month that in the Church of England alone there are 790 churches which are redundant now , or will be in 20 years' time .
A further 260 Anglican churches have been demolished since 1948 '' .
And in the last five years , the `` Methodist chapel committee has authorized the demolition or , more often , the sale of 764 chapels '' .
Most of these former churches are now used as warehouses , but `` neither Anglicans nor Nonconformists object to selling churches to Roman Catholics '' , and have done so .
While it must be said that these same Protestants have built some new churches during this period , and that religious population shifts have emptied churches , a principal reason for this phenomenon of redundancy is that fewer Protestants are going to church .
It should be admitted , too , that there is a good percentage of lapsed or nonchurchgoing Catholics ( one paper writes 50 per cent ) .
Still , it is clear from such reports , and apparently clear from the remarks of many people , that Protestants are decreasing and Catholics increasing .
An Anglican clergyman in Oxford sadly but frankly acknowledged to me that this is true .
A century ago , Newman saw that liberalism ( what we now might call secularism ) would gradually but definitely make its mark on English Protestantism , and that even high Anglicanism would someday no longer be a `` serviceable breakwater against doctrinal errors more fundamental than its own '' .
That day is perhaps today , 1961 , and it seems no longer very meaningful to call England a `` Protestant country '' .
One of the ironies of the present crusade for Christian unity is that there are not , relatively speaking , many real Christians to unite .
Many English Catholics are proud of their Catholicism and know that they are in a new ascendancy .
The London Universe devoted its centenary issue last December 8 to mapping out various aspects of Catholic progress during the last one hundred years .
With traditional nationalistic spirit , some Englishmen claim that English Catholicism is Catholicism at its best .
I have found myself saying with other foreigners here that English Catholics are good Catholics .
It has been my experience to find as many men as women in church , and to hear almost everyone in church congregations reciting the Latin prayers and responses at Mass .
They hope , of course , to reclaim the non-Catholic population to the Catholic faith , and at every Sunday Benediction they recite by heart the `` Prayer for England '' :
`` O Blessed Virgin Mary , Mother of God and our most gentle queen and mother , look down in mercy upon England , thy `` dowry '' , and upon us all who greatly hope and trust in thee .
Intercede for our separated brethren , that with us in the one true fold they may be united to the chief Shepherd , the vicar of thy Son .
'' A hymn often to be heard in Catholic churches is `` Faith Of Our Fathers '' , which glories in England's ancient faith that endured persecution , and which proclaims : `` Faith of our Fathers : Mary's prayers Shall win our country back to thee '' .
The English saints are widely venerated , quite naturally , and now there is great hope that the Forty Martyrs and Cardinal Newman will soon be canonized .
Because they have kept the faith of their medieval fathers , English Catholics have always strongly resented the charge of being `` un-English '' .
I have not seen this charge made during my stay here , but apparently it is still in the air .
For example , a writer in a recent number of The Queen hyperbolically states that `` of the myriad imprecations the only one which the English Catholics really resent is the suggestion that they are ' un-English ' '' .
In this connection , it has been observed that the increasing number of Irish Catholics , priests and laity , in England , while certainly seen as good for Catholicism , is nevertheless a source of embarrassment for some of the more nationalistic English Catholics , especially when these Irishmen offer to remind their Christian brethren of this good .
One of the more noteworthy changes that have taken place since the mid-19th century is the situation of Catholics at Oxford and Cambridge Universities .
At Oxford one hundred years ago there were very few Catholics , partly because religious tests were removed only in 1854 .
Moreover , for those few there was almost no ecclesiastical representation in the city to care for their religious needs .
Now , not only are there considerably more laity as students and professors at Oxford , but there are also numerous houses of religious orders existing in respectable and friendly relations with the non-Catholic members of the University .
Some Catholic priests lecture there ; ;
Catholic seminarians attend tutorials and row on the Cherwell with non-Catholic students .
Further evidence that Roman Catholicism enjoys a more favorable position today than in 1861 is the respectful attention given to it in the mass media of England .
The general tone of articles appearing in such important newspapers as the Manchester Guardian and the Sunday Observer implies a kindly recognition that the Catholic Church is now at least of equal stature in England with the Protestant churches .
On successive Sundays during October , 1960 , Paul Ferris ( a non-Catholic ) wrote articles in the Observer depicting clergymen of the Church of England , the Church of Rome and the Nonconformist Church .
The Catholic priest , though somewhat superficially drawn , easily came out the best .
There were many letters of strong protest against the portrait of the Anglican clergyman , who was indeed portrayed as a man not particularly concerned with religious matters and without really very much to do as clergyman .
Such a series of articles was certainly never printed in the public press of mid-Victorian England .
There was so much interest shown in this present-day venture that it was continued on B.B.C. , where comments were equally made by an Anglican parson , a Free Church minister and a Catholic priest .
Catholic priests have frequently appeared on television programs , sometimes discussing the Christian faith on an equal footing with Protestant clergymen .
A notable example of this was the discussion of Christian unity by the Catholic Archbishop of Liverpool , Dr. Heenan , and the Anglican Archbishop of York , Dr. Ramsey , recently appointed Archbishop of Canterbury .
The good feeling which exists between these two important church figures is now well known in England .
The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass with commentary has been televised several times in recent months .
And it was interesting to observe that B.B.C.'s television film on Christmas Eve was The Bells Of St. Mary's .
Of course , the crowning event that has dramatically upset the traditional pattern of English religious history was the friendly visit paid by Dr. Fisher , then Anglican Archbishop of Canterbury , to the Vatican last December .
It was the first time an English Primate has done this since the 14th century .
English Catholics reacted to this event with moderate but real hope .
Almost daily something is reported which feeds this Catholic hope in England : statistics of the increasing numbers of converts and Irish Catholic immigrants ; ;
news of a Protestant minister in Leamington who has offered to allow a Catholic priest to preach from his pulpit ; ;
a report that a Catholic nun had been requested to teach in a non-Catholic secondary school during the sickness of one of its masters ; ;
the startling statement in a respectable periodical that `` Catholics , if the present system is still in operation , will constitute almost one-third of the House of Lords in the next generation '' ; ;
a report that 200 Protestant clergymen and laity attended a votive Mass offered for Christian unity at a Catholic church in Slough during the Church Unity Octave .
The death of a man is unique , and yet it is universal .
The straight line would symbolize its uniqueness , the circle its universality .
But how can one figure symbolize both ? ?
Christianity declares that in the life and death of Jesus Christ the unique and the universal concur .
Perhaps no church father saw this concurrence of the unique and the universal as clearly , or formulated it as precisely , as Irenaeus .
To be the Savior and the Lord , Jesus Christ has to be a historical individual with a biography all his own ; ;
he dare not be a cosmic aeon that swoops to earth for a while but never identifies itself with man's history .
Yet this utterly individual historical person must also contain within himself the common history of mankind .
His history is his alone , yet each man must recognize his own history in it .
His death is his alone , yet each man can see his own death in the crucifixion of Jesus .
Each man can identify himself with the history and the death of Jesus Christ because Jesus Christ has identified himself with human history and human death , coming as the head of a new humanity .
Not a circle , then , nor a straight line , but a spiral represents the shape of death as Irenaeus sees it ; ;
for a spiral has motion as well as recurrence .
As represented by a spiral , history may , in some sense , be said to repeat itself ; ;
yet each historical event remains unique .
Christ is both unique and universal .
The first turn of the spiral is the primeval history of humanity in Adam .
As Origen interprets the end of history on the basis of its beginning , so Irenaeus portrays the story of Adam on the basis of the story of Christ .
`` Whence , then , comes the substance of the first man ? ?
From God's Will and Wisdom , and from virgin earth .
For ' God had not rained ' , says the Scripture , before man was made , and there was no man to till the earth .
From this earth , then , while it was still virgin God took dust and fashioned the man , the beginning of humanity '' .
Irenaeus does not regard Adam and Eve merely as private individuals , but as universal human beings , who were and are all of humanity .
Adam and Eve were perfect , not in the sense that they possessed perfection , but in the sense that they were capable of development toward perfection .
They were , in fact , children .
Irenaeus does not claim pre-existence for the human soul ; ;
therefore there is no need for him , as there is for Origen , to identify existence itself with the fall .
Existence is created and willed by God and is not the consequence of a pre-existent rebellion or of a cosmic descent from eternity into history .
Historical existence is a created good .
The biblical symbol for this affirmation is expressed in the words : `` So God created man in his own image ; ;
in the similitude of God he created him '' .
There are some passages in the writings of Irenaeus where the image of God and the similitude are sharply distinguished , so most notably in the statement : `` If the ( Holy ) Spirit is absent from the soul , such a man is indeed of an animal nature ; ;
and , being left carnal , he will be an imperfect being , possessing the image ( of God ) in his formation , but not receiving the similitude ( of God ) through the Spirit '' .
Thus the image of God is that which makes a man a man and not an oyster ; ;
the similitude of God , by contrast , is that which makes a man a child of God and not merely a rational creature .
Recent research on Irenaeus , however , makes it evident that he does not consistently maintain this distinction .
He does not mean to say that Adam lost the similitude of God and his immortality through the fall ; ;
for he was created not exactly immortal , nor yet exactly mortal , but capable of immortality as well as of mortality .
Therefore Irenaeus describes man's creation as follows :
`` So that the man should not have thoughts of grandeur , and become lifted up , as if he had no lord , because of the dominion that had been given to him , and the freedom , fall into sin against God his Creator , overstepping his bounds , and take up an attitude of self-conceited arrogance towards God , a law was given him by God , that he might know that he had for lord the lord of all .
And He laid down for him certain conditions : so that , if he kept the command of God , then he would always remain as he was , that is , immortal ; ;
but if he did not , he would become mortal , melting into earth , whence his frame had been taken '' .
These conditions man did not keep , and thus he became mortal ; ;
yet he did not stop being human as a result .
There is no justification for systematizing the random statements of Irenaeus about the image of God beyond this , nor for reading into his imprecise usage the later theological distinction between the image of God ( humanity ) and the similitude of God ( immortality ) .
Man was created with the capacity for immortality , but the devil's promise of immortality in exchange for disobedience cost Adam his immortality .
He was , in the words of Irenaeus , `` beguiled by another under the pretext of immortality '' .
The true way to immortality lay through obedience , but man did not believe this .
`` Eve was disobedient ; ;
for she did not obey when as yet she was a virgin .
And even as she , having indeed a husband , Adam , but being nevertheless as yet a virgin , having become disobedient , was made the cause of death , both to herself and to the entire human race ; ;
so also did Mary , having a man betrothed ( to her ) , and being nevertheless a virgin , by yielding obedience , become the cause of salvation , both to herself and the whole human race '' .
Because he interprets the primitive state of man as one of mere potentiality or capacity and believes that Adam and Eve were created as children , Irenaeus often seems inclined to extenuate their disobedience as being `` due , no doubt , to carelessness , but still wicked '' .
His interpretation of the beginning on the basis of the end prompts him to draw these parallels between the Virgin Eve and the Virgin Mary .
That parallelism affects his picture of man's disobedience too ; ;
for as it was Christ , the Word of God , who came to rescue man , so it was disobedience to the word of God in the beginning that brought death into the world , and all our woe .
With this act of disobedience , and not with the inception of his individual existence , man began the downward circuit on the spiral of history , descending from the created capacity for immortality to an inescapable mortality .
At the nadir of that circuit is death .
`` Along with the fruit they did also fall under the power of death , because they did eat in disobedience ; ;
and disobedience to God entails death .
Wherefore , as they became forfeit to death , from that ( moment ) they were handed over to it '' .
This leads Irenaeus to the somewhat startling notion that Adam and Eve died on the same day that they disobeyed , namely , on a Friday , as a parallel to the death of Christ on Good Friday ; ;
he sees a parallel also to the Jewish day of preparation for the Sabbath .
In any case , though they had been promised immortality if they ate of the tree , they obtained mortality instead .
The wages of sin is death .
Man's life , originally shaped for immortality and for communion with God , must now be conformed to the shape of death .
Nevertheless , even at the nadir of the circuit the spiral of history belongs to God , and he still rules .
Even death , therefore , has a providential as well as a punitive function .
`` Wherefore also He ( God ) drove him ( man ) out of Paradise , and removed him far from the tree of life , not because He envied him the tree of life , as some venture to assert , but because He pitied him , ( and did not desire ) that he should continue a sinner for ever , nor that the sin which surrounded him should be immortal , and evil interminable and irremediable .
But He set a bound to his ( state of ) sin , by interposing death , and thus causing sin to cease , putting an end to it by the dissolution of the flesh , which should take place in the earth , so that man , ceasing at length to live in sin , and dying to it , might live to God '' .
This idea , which occurs in both Tatian and Cyprian , fits especially well into the scheme of Irenaeus' theology ; ;
for it prepares the way for the passage from life through death to life that is achieved in Christ .
As man can live only by dying , so it was only by his dying that Christ could bring many to life .
It is probably fair to say that the idea of death is more profound in Irenaeus than the idea of sin is .
This applies to his picture of Adam .
It is borne out also by the absence of any developed theory about how sin passes from one generation to the next .
It becomes most evident in his description of Christ as the second Adam , who does indeed come to destroy sin , but whose work culminates in the achievement of immortality .
This emphasis upon death rather than sin as man's fundamental problem Irenaeus shares with many early theologians , especially the Greek-speaking ones .
They speak of the work of Christ as the bestowal of incorruptibility , which can mean ( though it does not have to mean ) deliverance from time and history .
Death reminds man of his sin , but it reminds him also of his transience .
It represents a punishment that he knows he deserves , but it also symbolizes most dramatically that he lives his life within the process of time .
These two aspects of death cannot be successfully separated , but they dare not be confused or identified .
The repeated efforts in Christian history to describe death as altogether the consequence of human sin show that these two aspects of death cannot be separated .
Such efforts almost always find themselves compelled to ask whether Adam was created capable of growing old and then older and then still older , in short , whether Adam's life was intended to be part of the process of time .
If it was , then it must have been God's intention to translate him at a certain point from time to eternity .
One night , so some of these theories run , Adam would have fallen asleep , much as he fell asleep for the creation of Eve ; ;
and thus he would have been carried over into the life eternal .
The embarrassment of these theories over the naturalness of death is an illustration of the thesis that death cannot be only a punishment , for some termination seems necessary in a life that is lived within the natural order of time and change .
On the other hand , Christian faith knows that death is more than the natural termination of temporal existence .
It is the wages of sin , and its sting is the law .
If this aspect of death as punishment is not distinguished from the idea of death as natural termination , the conclusion seems inevitable that temporal existence itself is a form of punishment rather than the state into which man is put by the will of the Creator .
This seems to have been the conclusion to which Origen was forced .
If death receives more than its share of attention from the theologian and if sin receives less than its share , the gift of the life eternal through Christ begins to look like the divinely appointed means of rescue from temporal , i.e. , created , existence .
Such an interpretation of death radically alters the Christian view of creation ; ;
for it teaches salvation from , not salvation in , time and history .
Because Christianity teaches not only salvation in history , but salvation by the history of Christ , such an interpretation of death would require a drastic revision of the Christian understanding of the work of Christ .
Furthermore , as an encouragement to revisionist thinking , it manifestly is fair to admit that any fraternity has a constitutional right to refuse to accept persons it dislikes .
The Unitarian clergy were an exclusive club of cultivated gentlemen -- as the term was then understood in the Back Bay -- and Parker was definitely not a gentleman , either in theology or in manners .
Ezra Stiles Gannett , an honorable representative of the sanhedrin , addressed himself frankly to the issue in 1845 , insisting that Parker should not be persecuted or calumniated and that in this republic no power to restrain him by force could exist .
Even so , Gannett judiciously argued , the Association could legitimately decide that Parker `` should not be encouraged nor assisted in diffusing his opinions by those who differ from him in regard to their correctness '' .
We today are not entitled to excoriate honest men who believed Parker to be downright pernicious and who barred their pulpits against his demand to poison the minds of their congregations .
One can even argue -- though this is a delicate matter -- that every justification existed for their returning the Public Lecture to the First Church , and so to suppress it , rather than let Parker use it as a sounding board for his propaganda when his turn should come to occupy it .
Finally , it did seem clear as day to these clergymen , as Gannett's son explained in the biography of his father , they had always contended for the propriety of their claim to the title of Christians .
Their demand against the Calvinist Orthodoxy for intellectual liberty had never meant that they would follow `` free inquiry '' to the extreme of proclaiming Christianity a `` natural '' religion .
Grant all this -- still , when modern Unitarianism and the Harvard Divinity School recall with humorous affection the insults Parker lavished upon them , or else argue that after all Parker received the treatment he invited , they betray an uneasy conscience .
Whenever New England liberalism is reminded of the dramatic confrontation of Parker and the fraternity on January 23 , 1843 -- while it may defend the privilege of Chandler Robbins to demand that Parker leave the Association , while it may plead that Dr. N. L. Frothingham had every warrant for stating , `` The difference between Trinitarians and Unitarians is a difference in Christianity ; ;
the difference between Mr. Parker and the Association is a difference between no Christianity and Christianity '' -- despite these supposed conclusive assurances , the modern liberal heaves repeatedly a sigh of relief , of positive thanksgiving , that the Association never quite brought itself officially to expel Parker .
Had it done so , the blot on its escutcheon would have remained indelible , nor could the Harvard Divinity School assemble today to honor Parker's insurgence other than by getting down on its collective knees and crying `` peccavi '' .
Happily for posterity , then , the Boston Association did not actually command Parker to leave the room , though it came too close for comfort to what would have been an unforgivable brutality .
Fortunately , the honor of the denomination can attest that Cyrus Bartol defended Parker's sincerity , as did also Gannett and Chandler Robbins ; ;
whereupon Parker broke down into convulsions of weeping and rushed out of the room , though not out of the Fellowship .
In the hall , after adjournment , Dr. Frothingham took him warmly by the hand and requested Parker to visit him -- whereupon our burly Theodore again burst into tears .
All this near tragedy , which to us borders on comedy , enables us to tell the story over and over again , always warming ourselves with a glow of complacency .
It was indeed a near thing , but somehow the inherent decency of New England ( which we inherit ) did triumph .
Parker was never excommunicated .
To the extent that he was ostracized or even reviled , we solace ourselves by saying he asked for it .
Yet , even after all these stratagems , the conscience of Christian liberality is still not laid to rest , any more than is the conscience of Harvard University for having done the abject penance for its rejection of Ralph Waldo Emerson's The Divinity School Address of naming its hall of philosophy after him .
In both cases the stubborn fact remains : liberalism gave birth to two brilliant apostates , both legitimate offspring of its loins , and when brought to the test , it behaved shabbily .
Suppose they both had ventured into realms which their colleagues thought infidel : is this the way gentlemen settle frank differences of opinion ? ?
Is it after all possible that no matter how the liberals trumpet their confidence in human dignity they are exposed to a contagion of fear more insidious than any conservative has ever to worry about ? ?
However , there is a crucial difference between the two histories .
Emerson evaded the problem by shoving it aside , or rather by leaving it behind him : he walked out of the Unitarian communion , so that it could lick the wound of his departure , preserve its self-respect and eventually accord him pious veneration .
Parker insisted upon not resigning , even when the majority wanted him to depart , upon daring the Fellowship to throw him out .
Hence he was in his lifetime , as is the memory of him afterwards , a canker within the liberal sensitivity .
He still points an accusing finger at all of us , telling us we have neither the courage to support him nor the energy to cut his throat .
Actually , the dispute between Parker and the society of his time , both ecclesiastical and social , was a real one , a bitter one .
It cannot be smoothed over by now cherishing his sarcasms as delightful bits of self-deprecation or by solemnly calling for a reconsideration of the justice of the objections to him .
The fact is incontestable : that liberal world of Unitarian Boston was narrow-minded , intellectually sterile , smug , afraid of the logical consequences of its own mild ventures into iconoclasm , and quite prepared to resort to hysterical repressions when its brittle foundations were threatened .
Parker , along with Garrison and Charles Sumner , showed a magnificent moral bravery when facing mobs mobilized in defense of the Mexican War and slavery .
Nevertheless , we can find reasons for respecting even the bigotry of the populace ; ;
their passions were genuine , and the division between them and the abolitionists is clear-cut .
But Parker as the ultra-liberal minister within the pale of a church which had proclaimed itself the repository of liberality poses a different problem , which is not to be resolved by holding him up as the champion of freedom .
Even though his theological theses have become , to us , commonplaces , the fundamental interrogation he phrased is very much with us .
It has been endlessly rephrased , but I may here put it thus : at what point do the tolerant find themselves obliged to become intolerant ? ?
And then , as they become aware that they have reached the end of their patience , what do they , to their dismay , learn for the first time about themselves ? ?
There can be no doubt , the Boston of that era could be exquisitely cruel in enforcing its canons of behavior .
The gentle Channing , revered by all Bostonians , orthodox or Unitarian , wrote to a friend in Louisville that among its many virtues Boston did not abound in a tolerant spirit , that the yoke of opinion crushed individuality of judgment and action : `` No city in the world is governed so little by a police , and so much by mutual inspections and what is called public sentiment .
We stand more in awe of one another than most people .
Opinion is less individual or runs more into masses , and often rules with a rod of iron '' .
Even more poignantly , and with the insight of a genius , Channing added -- remember , this is Channing , not Parker ! !
-- that should a minister in Boston trust himself to his heart , should he `` speak without book , and consequently break some law of speech , or be hurried into some daring hyperbole , he should find little mercy '' .
Channing wrote this -- in a letter ! !
I think it fair to say that he never quite reached such candor in his sermons .
But Theodore Parker , commencing his mission to the world-at-large , disguised as the minister of a `` twenty-eighth Congregational Church '' which bore no resemblance to the Congregational polities descended from the founders ( among which were still the Unitarian churches ) , made explicit from the beginning that the conflict between him and the Hunkerish society was not something which could be evaporated into a genteel difference about clerical decorum .
Because he spoke openly with what Channing had prophesied someone might -- with daring hyperbole -- Parker vindicated Channing's further prophecy that he who committed this infraction of taste would promptly discover how little mercy liberals were disposed to allow to libertarians who appeared to them libertines .
An institutionalized liberalism proved itself fundamentally an institution , and only within those defined limits a license .
By reminding ourselves of these factors in the situation , we should , I am sure , come to a fresh realization , however painful it be , that the battle between Parker and his neighbors was fought in earnest .
He arraigned the citizens in language of so little courtesy that they had to respond with , at the least , resentment .
What otherwise could `` the lawyer , doctor , minister , the men of science and letters '' do when told that they had `` become the cherubim and seraphim and the three archangels who stood before the golden throne of the merchant , and continually cried , ' Holy , holy , holy is the Almighty Dollar ' `` ? ?
Nor , when we recollect how sensitive were the emotions of the old Puritan stock in regard to the recent tides of immigration , should we be astonished that their thin lips were compressed into a white line of rage as Parker snarled at them thus : `` Talk about the Catholics voting as the bishop tells ! !
Reproach the Catholics for it ! !
You and I do the same thing .
There are a great many bishops who have never had a cross on their bosom , nor a mitre on their head , who appeal not to the authority of the Pope at Rome , but to the Almighty Dollar , a pope much nearer home .
Boston has been controlled by a few capitalists , lawyers and other managers , who told the editors what to say and the preachers what to think '' .
This was war .
Parker meant business .
And he took repeated care to let his colleagues know that he intended them : `` Even the Unitarian churches have caught the malaria , and are worse than those who deceived them '' -- which implied that they were very bad indeed .
It was `` Duty '' he said that his parents had given him as a rule -- beyond even the love that suffused his being and the sense of humor with which he was largely supplied -- and it was duty he would perform , though it cost him acute pain and exhausted him by the age of fifty .
Parker could weep -- and he wept astonishingly often and on the slightest provocation -- but the psychology of those tears was entirely compatible with a remorseless readiness to massacre his opponents .
`` If it gave me pleasure to say hard things '' , he wrote , `` I would shut up forever '' .
We have to tell ourselves that when Parker spoke in this vein , he believed what he said , because he could continue , `` But the truth , which cost me bitter tears to say , I must speak , though it cost other tears hotter than fire '' .
Because he copiously shed his own tears , and yielded himself up as a living sacrifice to the impersonalized conscience of New England , he was not disturbed by the havoc he worked in other people's consciences .
Our endeavor to capture even a faint sense of how strenuous was the fight is muffled by our indifference to the very issue which in the Boston of 1848 seemed to be the central hope of its Christian survival , that of the literal , factual historicity of the miracles as reported in the Four Gospels .
It is idle to ask why we are no longer disturbed if somebody , professing the deepest piety , decides anew that it is of no importance whether or not Christ transformed the water into wine at eleven A.M. on the third of August , A.D. 32 .
We have no answer as to why we are not alarmed .
So we are the more prepared to give Parker the credit for having taken the right side in an unnecessary controversy , to salute his courage , and to pass on , happily forgetting both him and the entire episode .
We have not the leisure , or the patience , or the skill , to comprehend what was working in the mind and heart of a then recent graduate from the Harvard Divinity School who would muster the audacity to contradict his most formidable instructor , the majesterial Andrews Norton , by saying that , while he believed Jesus `` like other religious teachers '' , worked miracles , `` I see not how a miracle proves a doctrine '' .
I have , within the past fifty years , come out of all uncertainty into a faith which is a dominating conviction of the Truth and about which I have not a shadow of doubt .
It has been my lot all through life to associate with eminent scientists and at times to discuss with them the deepest and most vital of all questions , the nature of the hope of a life beyond this .
I have also constantly engaged in scientific work and am fully aware of the value of opinions formed in science as well as in the religions in the world .
In an amateurish , yet in a very real sense , I have followed the developments of archaeology , geology , astronomy , herpetology , and mycology with a hearty appreciation of the advances being made in these fields .
At one time I became disturbed in the faith in which I had grown up by the apparent inroads being made upon both Old and New Testaments by a `` Higher Criticism '' of the Bible , to refute which I felt the need of a better knowledge of Hebrew and of archaeology , for it seemed to me that to pull out some of the props of our faith was to weaken the entire structure .
Doubts thus inculcated left me floundering for a while and , like some higher critical friends , trying to continue to use the Bible as the Word of God while at the same time holding it to have been subjected to a vast number of redactions and interpolations : attempting to bridge the chasm between an older , reverent , Bible-loving generation and a critical , doubting , Bible-emancipated race .
Although still aware of a great light and glow of warmth in the Book , I stood outside shivering in the cold .
In one thing the higher critics , like the modernists , however , overreached themselves , in claiming that the Gospel of John was not written in John's time but well after the first century , perhaps as late as 150 A.D. .
Now , if any part of the Bible is assuredly the very Word of God speaking through His servant , it is John's Gospel .
To ask me to believe that so inexpressibly marvelous a book was written long after all the events by some admiring follower , and was not inspired directly by the Spirit of God , is asking me to accept a miracle far greater than any of those recorded in the Bible .
Here I took my leave of my learned friends to step out on another path , to which we might give the modern name of Pragmatism , or the thing that works .
Test it , try it , and if it works , accept it as a guiding principle .
So , I put my Bible to the practical test of noting what it says about itself , and then tested it to see how it worked .
As a short , possibly not the best method , I looked up `` Word '' in the Concordance and noted that the Bible claims from Genesis 1 to Revelation 22 to be God's personal message to man .
The next traditional step then was to accept it as the authoritative textbook of the Christian faith just as one would accept a treatise on any earthly `` science '' , and I submitted to its conditions according to Christ's invitation and promise that , `` If any man will do his will , he shall know of the doctrine , whether it be of God , or whether I speak of myself '' ( John 7 : 17 ) .
The outcome of such an experiment has been in due time the acceptance of the Bible as the Word of God inspired in a sense utterly different from any merely human book , and with it the acceptance of our Lord Jesus Christ as the only begotten Son of God , Son of Man by the Virgin Mary , the Saviour of the world .
I believe , therefore , that we are without exception sinners , by nature alienated from God , and that Jesus Christ , the Son of God , came to earth , the representative Head of a new race , to die upon the cross and pay the penalty of the sin of the world , and that he who thus receives Christ as his personal Saviour is `` born again '' spiritually , with new privileges , appetites , and affections , destined to live and grow in His likeness forever .
Nor can any man save himself by good works or by a commendable `` moral life '' , although such works are the natural fruits and evidences of a saving faith already received and naturally expressing itself through such avenues .
I now ever look for Christ according to His promises and those of the Old Testament as well , to appear again in glory to put away all sin and to reign in righteousness over the whole earth .
To state fully what the Bible means as my daily spiritual food is as intimate and difficult as to formulate the reasons for loving my nearest and dearest relatives and friends .
The Bible is as obviously and truly food for the spirit as bread is food for the body .
Again , as faith reveals God my Father and Christ my Saviour , I follow without question where He leads me daily by His Spirit of love , wisdom , power and prayer .
I place His precepts and His leadings above every seeming probability , dismissing cherished convictions and holding the wisdom of man as folly when opposed to Him .
I discern no limits to a faith vested in God and Christ , who is the sum of all wisdom and knowledge , and daring to trust Him even though called to stand alone before the world .
Our Lord's invitation with its implied promise to all is , `` Come and see '' .
I stood at the bedside of my patient one day and beheld a very sick man in terrible pain .
As I ministered to his needs , I noticed that his face was radiant in spite of his suffering and I learned that he was trusting not only in the skill of his doctor and nurse but also the Lord .
In his heart he had that peace of which the Lord spoke when He said , `` Peace I leave with you , my peace I give unto you : not as the world giveth , give I unto you .
Let not your heart be troubled , neither let it be afraid '' .
What a joy to realize that we , too , can claim this promise tendered by the Lord during His earthly ministry to a group of men who were very dear to Him .
He was about to leave them , to depart from this world , and return to His Father in Heaven .
Before He left them He promised that His peace would be their portion to abide in their hearts and minds .
I praise God for the privilege of being a nurse who has that peace through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ .
It makes my work a great deal easier to be able to pray for the Lord's guidance while ministering to the physical needs of my patients .
How often have I looked to Jesus when entering the sick room , asking for His presence and help in my professional duties as I give my talents not only as the world giveth but as one who loves the Saviour and His creatures .
Looking unto God , the Prophet Isaiah wrote these blessed words almost three thousand years ago : `` Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace , whose mind is stayed on thee : because he trusteth in thee '' .
Are you longing for peace in your heart ? ?
Such a calm and assuring peace can be yours .
As only a member of the family can share in the innermost joys of the family , likewise one must belong to the family of God in order to receive the benefits that are promised to those who are His own .
Perhaps you are not His child .
Perhaps you do not know if you belong to Him .
You may know that you are in God's family and be just as sure of it as you are that you belong to the family of your earthly father .
`` God so loved the world , that he gave his only begotten Son , that whosoever believeth in him should not perish , but have everlasting life '' , and `` as many as received him , to them gave He power to become the sons of God , even to them that believe on His name '' .
It is to those who believe on His name and belong to Him that He gives His peace ; ;
not that empty peace the world offers , but a deep , abiding peace which nothing can destroy .
Why not open your heart to the Lord Jesus Christ now , accept Him as your Saviour and let Him fill you with peace that only He can give .
Then , with the hymn writer of old , you can say :
`` I am resting today in His wonderful peace ,
Resting sweetly in Jesus' control .
I am kept from all danger by night and by day ,
And His glory is flooding my soul '' .
Satellites , sputniks , rockets , balloons ; ;
what next ? ?
Our necks are stiff from gazing at the wonders of outer space , which have captured the imagination of the American public .
Cape Canaveral's achievements thunder forth from the radio , television , and newspaper .
While we are filling outer space with scientific successes , for many the `` inner '' space of their soul is an aching void .
Proof ? ?
An average of 50 suicides are reported in America each day ! !
One out of every three or four marriages ends in divorce ! !
Over $200,000,000 is paid yearly to the 80,000 full-time fortune-tellers in the United States by fearful mankind who want to `` know '' what the future holds ! !
Delinquency , juvenile and adult , is at an all-time high ! !
Further proof ? ?
Read your daily newspaper ! !
Unfortunately , in our rush to beat the Russians , we have forgotten these truth-packed words of Jesus Christ : `` What shall it profit a man , if he shall gain the whole world ( that includes outer space ) , and lose his own soul ? ?
Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul '' ? ?
( Mark 36 , 37 ) .
Gaining outer space and losing `` inner '' space is bad business according to God's standards .
It is true that we must keep up our national defenses and scientific accomplishments ; ;
only a fool would think otherwise .
But we must not forget man's soul .
Is putting a rocket in orbit half so significant as the good news that God put His Son , Jesus Christ , on earth to live and die to save our hell-bound souls ? ?
`` For God so loved the world , that he gave his only begotten Son , that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish , but have everlasting life '' ( John 3 : :
16 ) .
Never forget that a chain is only as strong as its weakest link .
Your spiritual `` inner '' space helps determine the spirituality of America as a nation .
We trust you are not one of the 70,000,000 Americans who do not attend church , but who feel that various forms of recreation are more important than worshipping the God who made our country great .
Is forgiveness of past sins , assurance of present help , and hope of future bliss in your orbit ? ?
Or are you trying the devil's substitutes to relieve that spiritual hunger you feel within ? ?
Pleasure , fame and fortune , drowning your troubles with a drink , and `` living it up '' with the gang are like candy bars when you're hungry : they may ease your hunger temporarily , but they'll never take the place of a satisfying , mouth-watering steak .
So it is spiritually .
No amount of religious ceremonies or even joining a church will relieve the gnawing of your `` inner '' space .
Why ? ?
Because your soul was made to be filled with God Himself , not religious functions `` about '' Him .
Only He can satisfy the deepest longings .
That is why the Bible commands you to `` Taste and see that the Lord is good : blessed ( happy ) is the man that trusteth in Him '' ( Psalm 34 : 8 ) .
You can receive God into your heart and life by a step of personal faith .
Accept the sinless Son of God , Jesus Christ , as your own personal Saviour .
`` As many as received Him ( Jesus ) , to them gave He power to become the sons of God , even to them that believe on his name '' .
`` The Lord is my light and my salvation ; ;
whom shall I fear ? ?
The Lord is the strength of my life ; ;
of whom shall I be afraid '' ? ?
( Psalm 27 : 1 )
A certain teacher scheduled a `` Fear Party '' for her fourth grade pupils .
It was a session at which all the youngsters were told to express their fears , to get them out in the open where they could talk about them freely .
The teacher thought it was so successful that she asks : `` Wouldn't it be helpful to all age groups if they could participate in a similar confessional of their fears and worries '' ? ?
Dr. George W. Crane , a medical columnist , thinks it would .
He says : `` That would reduce neurotic ailments tremendously .
Each week an estimated 20 million patients call upon us doctors .
Of this number , 50% , or 10 million patients have no diagnosable physical ailments whatever .
They are ' worry warts .
Yet they keep running from one physician to another , largely to get a willing ear who will listen to their parade of troubles .
One of the most wholesome things you could schedule in your church would thus be a group confessional where people could admit of their inner tensions '' .
We are evidently trying hard to think of new ways to deal with the problem of fear these days .
It must be getting more serious .
People are giving their doctors a hard time .
One doctor made a careful survey of his patients and the reasons for their troubles , and he reported that 40% of them worried about things that never happened ; ;
30% of them worried about past happenings which were completely beyond their control ; ;
12% of them worried about their health , although their ailments were imaginary ; ;
10% of them worried about their friends , neighbors , and relatives , most of whom were quite capable of taking care of themselves .
Only 8% of the worries had behind them real causes which demanded attention .
Well , most of our fears may be unfounded , but after you discover that fact , you have something else to worry about : Why then do we have these fears ? ?
What is the real cause of them ? ?
What is there about us that makes us so anxious ? ?
Look at the things we do to escape our fears and to forget our worries .
We spend millions of dollars every year on fortune tellers and soothsayers .
We spend billions of dollars at the race tracks , and more billions on other forms of gambling .
We spend billions of dollars on liquor , and many more billions on various forms of escapist entertainment .
We consume tons of aspirin and tranquilizers and sleeping pills in order to get a moment's relief from the tensions that are tearing us apart .
A visitor from a more peaceful country across the sea was taken to one of our amusement parks , and after he had seen it all , he said to a friend : `` You must be a very sad people '' .
`` Sad '' was not the right word , of course .
He should have said `` jittery '' , for that's what we are .
And that's worse than sad .
Watch people flock to amusement houses , cocktail lounges , and night clubs that advertise continuous entertainment , which means an endless flow of noise and frivolity by paid entertainers who are supposed to perform in those incredible ways which are designed to give men a few hours of dubious relaxation -- watch them and you can tell that many of them are running away from something .
In one of his writings Pascal speaks of this mania for diversion as being a sign of misery and fear which man cannot endure without such opiates .
Yes , and as tension mounts in this world , fear is increasing .
Does that explain why there is now such a big boom in the bomb shelter business ? ?
We have so many new things to fear in this age of nuclear weapons , dreadful things which are too horrible to contemplate .
I doubt that `` fear parties '' and `` group confessionals '' will help very much .
Suppose we do get our fears out in the open , what then ? ?
Isn't that where most of them are already -- right out on the front page of our newspapers ? ?
Maybe we are talking about them too much .
The question is : what are we going to do about them ? ?
Meanwhile , the enemy will capitalize on our fears , if he can .
Hitler did just that 23 years ago , building up tensions that first led to a Munich and then to a world war .
The fear of war can make us either too weak to stand and too willing to compromise , or too reckless and too nervous to negotiate for peace as long as there is any chance to negotiate .
It is said that fear in human beings produces an odor that provokes animals to attack .
It could have the same effect on Communists .
The President of the United States has said : `` We will never negotiate out of fear , and we will never fear to negotiate '' .
That is a sound position , but it is important that Moscow shall recognize it not merely as the word of a president but as the mind of a free people who are not afraid .
And that's another reason why it is imperative for us these days to conquer our fears , to develop the poise that promotes peace .
Turning to the Word of God , we find the only sure way to do that .
In Psalm 27 : 1 you read those beautiful words which you must have in your heart if you are to master the fears that surround you , or to drive them out if they have you in their grip : `` The Lord is my light and my salvation ; ;
whom shall I fear ? ?
The Lord is the strength of my life ; ;
of whom shall I be afraid '' ? ?
Well , you say , those are beautiful words all right , but it was easy for the psalmist to sing them in his day .
He didn't live in a world of perpetual peril like ours .
He didn't know anything about the problems we face today .
No ? ?
Read the next two verses : `` When the wicked , even mine enemies and my foes , came upon me to eat up my flesh , they stumbled and fell .
Though an host should encamp against me , my heart shall not fear : though war should rise against me , in this will I be confident '' .
That is almost a perfect description of the predicament in which we find ourselves today , isn't it ? ?
Our enemy is also threatening to devour us .
He has already devoured huge areas of the world , putting men behind concrete walls and iron curtains and barbed wire , reducing them to slavery , systematically crushing not only their bodies but their souls , and shooting them to death if they try to escape their prison .
Yes indeed , we too can see a warlike host of infidels encamped against us .
What a terrible thing , that `` wailing wall '' in Berlin ! !
A man with a baby in his arms stood there pleading for his wife who is on the other side with the rest of the family .
Another man tried to swim across the river from the East to the West , but was shot and killed .
A middle aged woman opened a window on the third floor of her house which was behind the wall , she threw out a few belongings and then jumped ; ;
she was fatally injured .
The entrance to a church has been walled up , so that the congregation , most of which is in the western sector , cannot worship God there anymore .
Practically everybody in Berlin has relatives and friends that live in the opposite part of the city .
People stand at the wall giving vent to their feelings , weeping , pounding it with their fists , pleading for loved ones .
But the enemy answers them from loudspeakers that pour out Communist propaganda with a generous mixture of terrible profanity .
There is only one escape left , a tragic one , and too many people are taking it : suicide .
The normal rate of suicides in East Berlin was one a day , but since the border was closed on August 13 it has jumped to 25 a day ! !
These things may be happening many miles away from us but really they are right next door .
We are all involved in them , deeply involved .
And nobody knows what comes next .
We live from crisis to crisis .
And there is only one way for a man to conquer his fears in such a world .
He must learn to say with true faith what the psalmist said in a similar world : `` The Lord is my light and my salvation ; ;
whom shall I fear ? ?
The Lord is the strength of my life ; ;
of whom shall I be afraid '' ? ?
Notice that this man had a threefold conception of God which is the secret of his faith .
First , `` the Lord is my light '' .
He lived in a very dark world , but he was not in the dark .
The same God who called this world into being when He said : `` Let there be light '' ! !
-- those were His very first creative words -- He began the world with light -- this God still gives light to a world which man has plunged into darkness .
For those who put their trust in Him He still says every day again : `` Let there be light '' ! !
And there is light ! !
In fact , He came into this world Himself , in the person of His Son , Jesus Christ , who stood here amid the darkness of human sin and said : `` I am the light of the world : he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness , but shall have the light of life '' .
The psalmist could say that God was his light even though he could only anticipate the coming of Christ .
He lived in the dawn ; ;
he could only see the light coming over the horizon .
We live in the bright daylight of that great event ; ;
for us it is a fact in history .
Why should we not have the same faith , and an even greater experience of the light which it gives ? ?
This is the faith that moved the psalmist to add his second conception of God : `` The Lord is my salvation '' .
He knew that his God would save him from his enemies because He had saved him from his sins .
If God could do that , He could do anything .
The enemies at his gate , threatening to eat up his flesh , were nothing compared with the enemy of sin within his own soul .
And God had conquered that one by His grace ! !
So why worry about all the others ? ?
The apostle Paul said the same thing in the language and faith of the New Testament : `` He that spared not His own Son , but delivered Him up for us all , how shall He not with Him freely give us all things ? ?
If God be for us , who can be against us ? ?
Who shall separate us from the love of Christ ? ?
Shall tribulation , or distress , or persecution , or famine , or nakedness , or peril , or sword '' ? ?
( Romans 31 , 32 , 35 )
Salvation ! !
This is the key to the conquest of fear .
This gets down to the heart of our problem , for it reconciles us with God , whom we fear most of all because we have sinned against Him .
When that fear has been removed by faith in Jesus Christ , when we know that He is our Savior , that He has paid our debt with His blood , that He has met the demands of God's justice and thus has turned His wrath away -- when we know that , we have peace with God in our hearts ; ;
and then , with this God on our side , we can face the whole world without fear .
And so the psalmist gives us one more picture of God : `` The Lord is the strength of my life '' .
The word is really `` stronghold '' .
It recalls those words of another psalm : `` God is our refuge and strength , a very present help in trouble .
Therefore will not we fear , though the earth be removed , and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea Come , behold the works of the Lord , what desolations He hath made in the earth .
But , again , we have no real evidence on this from that quarter until the close of the ninth century A.D. , when an Arabic scholar , Tabit Ibn Korra ( 836-901 ) is said to have discussed the magic square of three .
Thus , while it remains possible that the Babylonians and/or the Pythagoreans may perhaps have had the magic square of three before the Chinese did , more definite evidence will have to turn up from the Middle East or the Classical World before China can lose her claim to the earliest known magic square by more than a thousand years .
2 .
The `` Lo Shu '' square as an expression of centrality
The concept of the Middle Kingdom at peace , strong and united under a forceful ruler , which had been only a longed-for ideal in the time of the Warring States , was finally realized by the establishment of a Chinese Empire under the Ch'in dynasty ( 221-207 B.C. ) .
But this was only accomplished by excessive cruelty and extremes of totalitarian despotism .
Among the many severe measures taken by the First Emperor , Shih Huang-ti , in his efforts to insure the continuation of this hard-won national unity , was the burning of the books in 213 B.C. , with the expressed intention of removing possible sources for divergent thinking ; ;
but , as he had a special fondness for magic and divination , he ordered that books on these subjects should be spared .
Many of the latter were destroyed in their turn , during the burning of the vast Ch'in palace some ten years later ; ;
yet some must have survived , because the old interest in number symbolism , divination , and magic persisted on into the Han dynasty , which succeeded in reuniting China and keeping it together for a longer period ( from 202 B.C. to A.D. 220 ) .
In fact , during the first century B.C. , an extensive literature sprang up devoted to these subjects , finding its typical expression in the so-called `` wei books '' , a number of which were specifically devoted to the Lo Shu and related numerical diagrams , especially in connection with divination .
However , the wei books were also destroyed in a series of Orthodox Confucian purges which culminated in a final proscription in 605 .
After all this destruction of old literature , it should be obvious why we have so little information about the early history and development of the Lo Shu , which was already semisecret anyhow .
But , in spite of all this , enough evidence remains to show that the magic square of three must indeed have been the object of a rather extensive cult -- or series of cults -- reaching fullest expression in the Han period .
Although modern scholars have expressed surprise that `` the simple magic square of three '' , a mere `` mathematical puzzle '' , was able to exert a considerable influence on the minds and imaginations of the cultured Chinese for so many centuries , they could have found most of the answers right within the square itself .
But , up to now , no one has attempted to analyze its inherent mathematical properties , or the numerical significance of its numbers -- singly or in combination -- and then tried to consider these in the light of Old Chinese cosmological concepts .
Such an analysis speedily reveals why the middle number of the Lo Shu , 5 , was so vitally significant for the Chinese ever since the earliest hints that they had a knowledge of this diagram .
