He could not break in on an armed man .
He would have to climb back down to the street and signal a cop .
Was there time ? ?
His thoughts were scattered by the sharp report of a rifle from the other side of the door .
Hoag pushed open the door : at the far end of the long dark room Muller was faintly silhouetted against the window , the rifle still raised ; ;
he stood with his feet apart on a kitchen table he had dragged to the sill .
He turned his head to the source of the disturbance and instantly back to the window and his rifle sight , dismissing Hoag for the moment with the same contempt he had shown in their encounter at Hoag's apartment .
Hoag stretched his left hand to the wall and fumbled for the switch : evil flourishes in the dark .
The room was bathed in light at the instant Muller's second shot came .
Muller , nakedly exposed at the bright window like a deer pinned in a car's headlights , threw down the rifle and turned to jump from the table ; ;
his face wore a look of outrage .
A shot caught him and straightened him up in screaming pain ; ;
a following volley of shots shattered glass , ripped the ceiling , and sent him lurching heavily from the table .
He was dead before his body made contact with the floor .
Hoag stumbled back into the hall , leaned against the wall , and started to retch .
After Captain Docherty sent Arleigh Griffith for Hoag he was able to complete his detailed inspection of the third floor and to receive a report from his man covering the floors above before Griffith returned , buoyed up by a brief stop for another glass of champagne .
The safe at Ingleside District Station stands next to the gum machine in a narrow passageway that leads to Captain Harris's office ( to the left ) , the lieutenant's office ( farther along and to the left ) and the janitor's supply closet ( straight ahead ) .
The safe is a repository for three dead flashlight batteries , a hundred and fifty unused left-hand fingerprint cards , a stack of unsold Policemen's Ball tickets from last year , and thirty-seven cents in coins and stamps .
Gun set the captain's fifth of Hiram Walker inside the safe before he reported to Lt. Killpath , though he knew that Killpath's ulcer prevented him from making any untoward incursion on Herman Wolff's gift .
It was more a matter of tact , and also it was none of Killpath's goddam business .
He walked up to the lieutenant's office , leaned wearily against the gun rack that housed four rifles and a gas gun nobody remembered having used and a submachine gun that was occasionally tried out on the Academy Range .
He stared at the clerk who sat at a scarred and ancient fumed-oak desk stuffing envelopes .
`` Where's the Lieut '' ? ?
The clerk wagged his head toward the captain's office .
Gun went to the connecting door , which was open , and stood at attention while Orville Torrence Killpath , in full uniform , finished combing his hair .
The lieutenant's sparse brown hair was heavily pomaded , and as Killpath raked the comb through it , it stuck together in thatches so that it looked like umbrella ribs clinging to his pink skull .
The lieutenant eyed Gun's reflection in the mirror over the washbowl and then glanced back at his own face , moving the comb methodically around his head .
Leave me alone , Gun thought .
Fight with Sam Schaeffer , fight with the whole damned Bureau .
But leave me alone .
Because I'm looking for the son of a bitch that killed that old man , and I'm going to get him .
If you just leave me to hell alone , Lieutenant .
Killpath peered through half-closed lids at his reflection , thrust up his chin in a gesture of satisfaction and about-faced .
Gun waited for Killpath to sit down behind the desk near the window .
He sat stiff-backed in a chair that did not swivel , though it was obvious to Gun that Killpath felt his position as acting captain plainly merited a swivel chair .
The desk before him was in no better repair than the rest of the furniture crowded into the room , including wooden file cabinets with some of their pulls yanked off and a wardrobe stained with the roof seepage of countless seasons .
Killpath pulled one thin leg up , clamping his arms around the shinbone to press his knee into an incredibly scrawny gut .
It was the posture which the men had come to recognize as that of Killpath defying his ulcer .
He put his chin on his kneecap , stretching his neck like that of a turkey on a chopping block , and stared wordlessly at his sergeant .
Gun waited .
The 7:45 bell rang and he could hear the outside doors bang shut , closing in the assembled day watch .
Finally , Orville intoned through his hawk nose , `` We can't have people running in any time they please , Sergeant '' .
`` No , sir '' .
`` Running in , running out .
Can't have it .
Makes for confusion and congestion '' .
He rocked back in the chair , knee locked against stomach , his beady eyes fixed on Matson .
He was silent again , possibly listening to the sounds in the squadroom .
Roll was being called .
Gun cleared his throat .
Killpath said , `` You were expected to report to my office twenty minutes ago , Sergeant .
That's not getting all the juice out of the orange , now is it '' ? ?
`` No , sir '' .
Then Killpath smiled .
Gun knew that nothing but aces back to back would give the lieutenant an ulcer and a smile at the same time .
The day-watch platoon commander , Lt. Rinker , was calling out the beat assignments , but Matson couldn't make the names mean anything .
`` I called the station at three this morning '' , Killpath's nasal voice pronounced .
`` Do you have any idea who might have been in charge at the time '' ? ?
`` Sergeant Vaughn , sir '' .
`` Now , now , you're just guessing , Sergeant '' .
He smiled thinly , savoring his joke .
`` What if I said nobody was here but a couple of patrolmen '' ? ?
`` Sir , Vaughn knows better than to leave the station without a relief .
He must have '' --
`` He let a patrolman take over the duties of the station keeper .
Now that's not regulation , is it '' ? ?
`` No , sir '' .
`` But you didn't know a thing about it , did you '' ? ?
Killpath leaned forward ; ;
his foot slipped off the chair and he put it back again , frowning now .
`` That's not taking one's command with a responsible attitude , Matson '' .
Gun told himself that the old bastard was a fool .
But stupidity was no consolation when it had rank .
`` I was out in the district , sir '' .
`` Oh , yes .
So I have heard '' .
He stretched a pale hand out to the scattered papers on his desk .
`` I might point out that your inability to report to my office this morning when you were instructed to do so has not ah limited my knowledge of your activities as you may have hoped '' .
He took up a white sheet of paper , dark with single-spaced data .
A car pulled into the driveway outside the window .
Gun knew it was Car 12 , the wagon , returned from delivering Ingleside's drunk-and-disorderlies to the City Jail .
But for some fool reason he couldn't remember which men he'd put on the transfer detail .
He stared at the report in Killpath's hand , sure it was written by Accacia -- just as sure as if he'd submitted it in his scrawled longhand .
He sucked in his breath and kept quiet while Killpath laid down the sheet again , wound the gold-wire stems of his glasses around his ears and then , eying the report as it lay before him on the desk , intoned , `` Acting Lieutenant Gunnar Matson one failed to see that the station keeper was properly relieved two absented himself throughout the entire watch without checking on the station's activities or the whereabouts of his section sergeants three permitted members of the Homicide Detail of the Inspector's Bureau to arrogate for their own convenience a patrolman who was thereby prevented from carrying on his proper assignment four failed to notify the station commander Acting Captain O. T. Killpath of a homicide occurring in the district five frequented extralegal establishments known as after-hours spots for purposes of an unofficial and purportedly social nature and six '' -- he leaned back and peeled off his glasses `` -- failed to co-operate with the Acting Captain by returning promptly when so ordered .
What have you to say to that , Sergeant '' ? ?
Killpath sailed the paper across the desk , but Matson didn't pick it up or even glance at it .
`` Well '' ? ?
`` I didn't think Accacia knew so many big words , Lieutenant '' .
Killpath licked his lips .
`` Patrolman Accacia is an alert and conscientious law-enforcement officer .
I don't think his diligence mitigates your negligence , Matson '' .
`` Negligence , hell '' ! !
Gun held his breath a moment , pushing the volume and pitch of his voice down under the trapdoor in his throat .
`` Sir .
I would have been negligent and a goddam lousy cop to boot , if I'd sat around this station all night when somebody got away with murder in my district .
It's too bad I didn't call you , and it's too bad I let Schaeffer use Accacia when he could have had a boy who'd be glad to learn something of Homicide procedure .
But I'm not one damned bit sorry I went out to question the people I know in the places they hang around , and '' --
`` Let's not push our patience beyond the danger line , Sergeant '' , Killpath nasaled .
`` I shouldn't like to have to write you up for insubordination as well as dereliction of duty '' .
Gun stiffened , his hands balling into fists at his sides .
He clamped his jaws to keep the fury from spilling out .
An argument with Orville Torrence Killpath was as frustrating and as futile as a cap pistol on a firing range .
Killpath leaned forward again , rocked comfortably with his arms still wrapped around one knee .
`` Let's just remember , Sergeant , that we must all carry our own umbrella .
A district station can't run smoothly , unless '' -- He interrupted himself , looking around Gun at the doorway .
`` Morning , Lieutenant Rinker '' .
`` Sorry , Orville .
I thought you hadn't come in yet '' .
`` I've been here for some time '' .
He stood up , cocked his head and eyed Gun coldly .
`` The sergeant is just leaving '' .
It had come as no great surprise to Matson that the hot water in the showers didn't work , that Loren Severe had thrown up all over the stairs , or that some thieving bastard of a cop had walked off with his cigarettes .
It was the best he could hope for on a watch that had ended with a session in Killpath's office .
Now , as he passed the open counter that divided the assembly room from the business office , he nodded and said good night to the station keeper and his clerks , not stopping to hear the day-watch playback of his chewing out .
Not that he gave a damn what the grapevine sent out about Killpath's little speech on the comportment of platoon commanders .
He just didn't want to talk about it .
If the acting captain wanted his acting lieutenant to sit on his ass around the station all night , Killpath would just have to go out and drag Gun back by the heels once an hour ; ;
because he'd be damned if he was going to be a mid-watch pencil-pusher just to please his ulcerated pro-tem captain .
At the doorway he squinted up at the gray morning overcast and patted his jacket pockets for the cigarettes , remembering then that he'd left them at the Doughnuttery .
He could pick up another pack on his way home , if he were going home .
But even before he started across the oiled road to his Plymouth , parked in the lot under the cypress trees across from the station , he knew that he wasn't going home .
Not yet .
It was nine o'clock in the morning : the hour which , like a spade turning clods of earth , exposed to the day a myriad of busy creatures that had lain dormant in the quiet night .
Mission Street at this hour was populated by a whole community that Gun could not have seen on his tour of duty -- the neighborhood that had known Urbano Quintana by day .
Then
Sol Phillips had purchased the Alliance Furniture Mart seventeen years ago .
It was professedly worth three thousand dollars in stock and good will , and the name was written in gold in foot-high letters across each of the two display windows .
On the right window , at eye level , in smaller print but also in gold , was Gonzalez , Prop. , and under that , Se Habla Espanol .
Mr. Phillips took a razor to Gonzalez , Prop. , but left the promise that Spanish would be understood because he thought it meant that Spanish clientele would be welcome .
Language was no problem anyway ; ;
Mr. Phillips had only to signal from his doorway to summon aid from the ubiquitous bilingual children who played on the sidewalks of Mission Street .
Aside from the fact that business was slow this time of year and his one salesgirl was not the most enterprising , Mr. Phillips had no worries at all , and he said as much to Gun Matson , who sat across from him in civilian clothes , on a Jiffy-Couch-a-Bed , mauve velour , $79.89 nothing-down special ! !
`` She's honest as the day '' , Mr. Phillips said , and added , `` Mr. Gunnar , I can say this to you : Beebe is a little too honest .
You can't tell a customer how much it's going to cost him to refinance his payments before he even signs for a loan on the money down ! !
A time plan is a mere convenience , you understand , and when '' -- He interrupted himself , smiling .
`` I put her in lamps .
That way I don't lose so much '' .
`` Why don't you just hire somebody else '' ? ?
`` She says she has to finish a story '' .
He shrugged .
`` I asked her why she couldn't do it tomorrow , but it seems the muse is working good tonight and she's afraid to let it go '' .
Casey made some comment , but his mind was busy as he considered the man .
His name was George Needham and he , too , had come from a good family .
He was perhaps thirty-two , nicely set up , with light brown hair that had a pronounced wave .
He was always well groomed and well tailored , and he had that rich man's look which was authentic enough and came from two good prep schools and a proper university .
An only child , he had done all the things that young men do who have been born to money and social position until his father double-crossed him by dying broke .
Since then he had worked at this and that , though some said his main interest was gambling .
All this went through Casey's mind in the first instant , but what held his interest was the fact that these two should be together at all .
For he had understood that Betty had been engaged to a boy named Barry Jenkins .
She had grown up with young Jenkins , and he had heard that they had been at the point of getting married at least twice .
He wanted to ask her about Jenkins now , but he knew he couldn't do so in Needham's presence .
And so , still wondering and a little perplexed , he grinned at the girl and spoke lightly to make sure that she would know he was kidding .
`` Where did you pick him up '' ? ?
`` Oh , I've known him quite a while '' .
She glanced at her companion fondly .
`` Haven't I , George '' ? ?
`` I've been after her for years '' , Needham said , `` but I've never been able to get anywhere until the last few days '' .
The girl's eyes were softly shining as she reached out and touched Casey's hand .
`` Can I tell you a secret ? ?
We're going to get married .
Do you approve '' ? ?
Casey kept his smile fixed , but some small inner disturbance was working on him as he thought again about Needham , who was eight or ten years older than the girl .
He wondered whether Needham was going to swear off gambling and get a steady job or whether he was counting on the income from Betty's estate to subsidize him .
None of this showed in his face , and he tried to keep his skepticism in hand .
He made a point of frowning , of acting out the part of the fond father-confessor .
`` I'll have to give it some thought '' , he said .
`` You wouldn't want me to say yes without making sure his intentions are honorable , would you '' ? ?
She made a face at him and then she laughed .
`` Of course not '' .
`` I'll get my references in order '' , Needham said , and though he spoke with a smile , Casey somehow got the idea that he was not particularly amused .
`` Stop by any time , Casey '' .
He stood up and touched the girl's arm .
`` Come on , darling .
If you're really serious about working on that story , I'd better take you home '' .
Casey watched them go , still frowning absently and then dismissing the matter as he called for his check .
As he went out he told Freddie the dinner was perfect , and when he got his hat and coat from Nancy Parks and put a fifty-cent piece in the slot , he told her to be sure that it went toward her dowry .
A taxi took him back to the bar and grill where he had left his car , and a few minutes later he found a parking place across the street from his apartment .
Because his mind had been otherwise occupied for the past couple of hours , he did not think to look and see if Jerry Burton's car was still there .
In fact , he did not think about Jerry Burton at all until he entered his living room and closed the door behind him .
Only then , when his glance focused on the divan and saw that it was empty , did he remember his earlier problem .
Even from where he stood he could see the neatly folded blanket that he had spread over Burton , the pillow , the sheet of paper on top of it .
Then he was striding across the room , his thoughts confused but the worry building swiftly inside him as he snatched up the note .
Jack :
Look in the wastebasket .
I knew the only way I could beat you was to play possum , but it was a good try , kid , and I appreciate it .
The wastebasket stood near the wall next to the divan , and the instant Casey picked it up he knew what had happened .
The discarded papers inside were sodden , there was a glint of liquid at the bottom , and the smell of whisky was strong and distinct .
He put the basket down distastefully , muttering softly and thoroughly disgusted with himself and his plan that had seemed so foolproof .
For he remembered too well how he had brought back the loaded drinks to Burton and then returned to the kitchen to get weaker drinks for himself .
For another second or two he gave in to the annoyance that was directed at himself ; ;
then his mind moved on to be confronted by something far more serious , and as the thought expanded , the implications jarred him .
It no longer mattered that Burton had outsmarted him .
The important thing was that Burton had gone somewhere to meet a blackmailer with a gun in his pocket .
And that gun was empty .
Even before his mind had rounded out the idea , he thrust one hand into his trousers pocket and pulled out the six slugs he had taken from the revolver .
He considered them with brooding eyes , brows bunched as his brain grappled with the problem and tried to find some solution .
He said : `` The crazy fool '' , half aloud .
He put the shells on the table , as though he could no longer bear to hold them .
He thought : Where the hell could he have gone ? ?
How can I find him ? ?
There was no answer to this and he began to pace back and forth across the room , his imagination out of control .
He tried to tell himself that maybe Burton had sobered up enough to get some sense .
Maybe he only intended to scare the blackmailer , whoever he was , in which case an unloaded gun would be good enough .
He thought of other possibilities , none of them satisfactory , and finally he began to think , to wonder if there was some way he could reach Burton .
Then , as he turned toward the telephone , it rang shrilly to shatter the stillness in the room and he reached for it eagerly .
`` Yeah '' , he said .
`` Casey '' ? ?
`` Yeah '' .
`` Tony Calenda '' .
Casey heard the voice distinctly and he knew who it was , but it took him a while to make the mental readjustment and control the disturbance inside his head .
When he heard Calenda say : `` What about that picture you took this afternoon '' ? ?
It still took him another few seconds to remember the job he had done for Frank Ackerly .
`` What picture '' ? ?
He demanded .
`` You took a picture of me at the corner of Washington and Blake about three thirty this afternoon '' .
`` Who says so '' ? ?
`` One of my boys '' .
Casey believed that much .
Calenda was not the sort who walked around without one of his `` boys '' close at hand .
`` So '' ? ?
`` With my trial coming up in Federal Court next week I wouldn't want that picture published '' .
`` Who says it's going to be published '' ? ?
`` I wouldn't even want it to get around '' .
Under normal circumstances Casey was a little fussy when people told him what to do with pictures he had taken .
Even so , he generally listened and was usually reasonable to those who voiced their objections properly .
Right now , however , he was still too worried about Jerry Burton , and the gun that had no bullets , and the story Burton had told him , to care too much about Tony Calenda .
His nerves were getting a little ragged and his impatience put an edge in his voice .
`` Look '' , he said .
`` I was hired to take a picture .
I took it .
That's all I know about it and that's all I care '' .
`` Maybe you'd better tell the guy who hired you what I said '' .
`` You tell him '' .
`` All right '' , Calenda said , his voice still quiet .
`` But I meant what I said , Casey .
If that picture gets around and I find out you had anything to do with it , I'm going to send a couple of my boys around to see you '' .
`` You do that '' , Casey said .
`` Just be sure to send your two best boys , Tony '' .
He hung up with a bang , annoyed at himself for running off at the mouth like that but still terribly concerned with the situation he had helped to create .
As soon as he could think logically again he reached for the telephone directory and found Jerry Burton's home number .
He dialed it and listened to it ring ten times before he hung up .
He called the bar and grill where he had picked Burton up that afternoon .
When he was told that no one had seen Burton since then , he thought of three other places that were possibilities .
Each time he got the same answer and in the end he gave up .
By the time he had smoked three cigarettes he had calmed down .
He had done all he could and that was that .
And anyway Burton was not the kind of guy who would be likely to get in trouble even when he was drunk .
He , Casey , had been scared for a while , but that had come mostly from the fact that he felt responsible .
He should have stayed here and watched Burton .
He didn't .
So he made a mistake .
So what ? ?
He kept telling himself this as he went out to the kitchen to make a drink .
Only then did he decide he didn't want one .
He considered opening a can of beer but vetoed that idea too .
Finally he went into the bedroom and sat down to take off his shoes .
He had just finished unlacing the right one when the telephone rang again .
When he snatched it up the voice that came to him was quick and urgent .
`` Casey ? ?
You don't know me but I know you .
If you want a picture get to the corner of Adams and Clark just as fast as you can .
If you hurry you might beat the headquarters boys '' .
Casey heard the click of the distant receiver before he could open his mouth , and it took him no more than three seconds to make his decision .
For over the years he had received many such calls .
Some of them came from people who identified themselves .
Some telephoned because he had done them a favor in the past .
Others because they expected some sort of reward for the information .
A few passed along a tip for the simple reason that they liked him and wanted to give him a break .
Only an occasional tip turned out to be a phony , and , like the police , Casey had made a point of running down all such suggestions and he did not hesitate this time .
He was in his car with his camera and equipment bag in less than two minutes , and it took him only three more to reach the corner , a block from Columbus Avenue .
It was a district of small factories and loft buildings and occasional tenements , and he could see the police radio car as he rounded the corner and slammed on the brakes .
He did not bother with his radio -- there would be time for that later -- but as he scrambled out on the pavement he saw the filling station and the public telephone booth and knew instantly how he had been summoned .
The police car had pulled up behind a small sedan , its headlights still on .
Slowly he pulled out the hand throttle until the boat was moving at little more than a crawl , and watched Elaine rapidly spin from one station to another , tune in the null , then draw in a line on the chart .
`` We're out just a little too far .
Make a 90 degree straight for shore '' .
Poet came in , raising his eyebrows appreciatively as he saw Elaine .
`` Now '' ? ?
He asked .
`` Pretty quick '' , she replied .
`` Will you drop the anchor '' ? ?
Poet nodded , swung below and a moment later emerged from the forward hatch where he picked up the anchor .
The rock and roll music coming from the radio station suddenly faded as the boat coasted into the null on the Aj .
`` Reverse '' , Elaine said , then peered through the loop of the RDF and waved to Poet .
A second later she came behind the wheel and backed off the anchor line until it was set in the ocean floor .
She cut the engines and slowly the cruiser swung around on the end of its lines until its bow was pointing into the wind and the cockpit faced toward the shore .
Nick watched her somewhat enviously as she efficiently cut the engines , and started the auxiliary motor .
Poet came up from below , wearing new bathing trunks .
The price tag hung from the belt and he pulled it off as he entered the chartroom and looked at it curiously .
Nick wondered if Elaine had bought them , but he said nothing .
Nobody , he suddenly realized , was saying anything .
It seemed as if they were all under a spell .
There should be an excited conversation , for somewhere , directly below them , was a treasure lost for more than four hundred years .
But instead of chatter there was a null , like on the radio direction finder .
Once , in New York , he had gone flying with some friends in a small private airplane with a single engine .
They had all been laughing , joking , when suddenly the engine had failed .
No one had screamed .
No one had prayed .
All had fallen into a complete silence , listening to the wind whistle over the wings .
The pilot had been good .
He'd landed the plane on a small airstrip in Connecticut and as soon as the aircraft had coasted to a stop , everyone had burst into chatter at the same moment .
There had been tension in the plane during the silent descent ; ;
a tension similar to the one now .
But in the plane there was a concrete reason for it .
Now , at this moment , there should be none unless skin diving was much more dangerous than he had been led to believe .
Yet tension existed .
The same taut-nerved relationship as there had been between the passengers on the plane now strained at the three of them here on the boat .
It hung over them like a cloud , its arrival as sudden as a cloud skidding over the sun .
Silently , Elaine picked up her keys from the table and went out into the cockpit , Poet behind her , Nick trailing behind him .
She threw back a cushion over one of the seats , unlocked a padlock on the chest beneath it , then presently straightened , holding a long knife and a wicked looking spear gun in her hand .
Poet whistled softly as he looked at the gun .
`` Hydraulic '' ? ?
He asked .
Elaine nodded .
`` They are the best '' .
She kicked the locker lid shut and replaced the cushion .
`` They are the most efficient '' .
`` And the deadliest '' , Poet commented as he buckled on his tank harness .
`` Why do you need an arsenal '' ? ?
Nick asked , apprehensively , staring at the weapon .
`` It's quite possible there's more than codfish down there , man '' , Poet replied with a short , nervous laugh as he held the harness for Elaine .
A moment later , moving awkwardly because of the swimming fins , she picked up the gun , handed the knife to Poet , then rolled off the transom of the boat , back first .
Poet nodded to Nick and entered the water in a similar fashion .
Another moment and they were out of sight , leaving behind only a string of bubbles as a clue to their whereabouts .
For a while Nick followed the twisting course of the bubbles , wondering which set came from Elaine .
They remained close together , their air trail wiggling like serpents traveling side by side .
Eventually the bubbles became lost in the sparkle of the ocean surface , and he rolled over on his back .
Clasping his hands behind his head , he stared at the blue sky .
There was nothing quite like being alone on a boat on the ocean .
Alfredo certainly must have enjoyed being alone .
Next to the ocean , probably the loneliest spot was the desert .
If Elaine's uncle had stuck to this desire for aloneness , he probably would still be alive .
Yet Alfredo wanted money wanted money to roam through the deserts .
And Graham wanted money probably to roam among the dice tables in Las Vegas .
It was an odd combination a strange pair to stumble upon the wreck of the Trinidad .
But Graham hadn't stumbled on it .
Two to three weeks prior to the charter of the Virginia , Graham had been snooping around the San Luis Rey Mission .
The small helicopter with its two steel skids churned offshore and Nick raised up to watch it heading south .
That was a hell of a note , he thought .
A couple couldn't even find a secluded spot anywhere on a beach to neck nowadays without someone swooping down upon them .
If the character flying that thing had gone over San Clemente Island yesterday he would have had an eyeful .
Off to the west a beautiful schooner slowly beat its way into the wind , headed on a tack toward San Clemente .
Behind it a cabin cruiser drifted crossways in the small ground-swell , a lone fisherman in the chair aft .
The fisherman was right in the middle of the Deep .
Nick recalled stories that the two best fishing spots in Southern California were over the La Jolla Deep and the Redondo Deep , two spots where the ocean dropped off to fantastic depths almost from the shoreline .
Someday , geologists had warned , the land on both sides of these deeps would fall into the ocean and no more La Jolla or Redondo Beach .
Meanwhile , fishermen took advantage of them to pull up whoppers .
Sometimes the fish exploded as they neared the surface because of the difference in pressure .
Why , he wondered , had Elaine wanted him along on this trip ? ?
He couldn't skindive , he couldn't run a boat , except on the open sea .
He stood up , stretched , looked around for the bubbles , but could see none .
Strolling down to the galley , he lit the butane under the coffee pot and when the brew was heated , poured himself a cup and went up to the chartroom .
Turning on the hi-fi , he went back to the cockpit , stretched out on the cushions and listened to the music .
Elaine and Poet returned together , popping up over the transom almost like dolphins breaking water .
He sat up and watched as they pulled themselves over the stern .
`` Any luck '' ? ?
He asked .
Poet shook his head , sliding his face mask up on his forehead .
`` We're right on the edge of the Deep '' , Elaine said .
Pulling off her face mask , she carefully placed the spear gun across the stern , then lifted her wet hair from her back and squeezed out the water .
`` Which is a break as the area to search is less than a square mile '' , she added as she swung her legs over the transom .
`` Any news '' ? ?
`` Not a thing '' .
He tossed her a towel , then repeated the service for Poet .
`` Cigarette '' ? ?
Elaine shook her head as she slipped out of her harness , but Poet nodded .
His feet still hung over the stern of the transom , but as he reached for the smoke he raised them to swing them in .
The fin on his foot caught on the moulding , throwing him off balance .
His forearm smashed painfully into the narrow washboard and he grimaced as he grabbed his bruised limb with his other hand and rolled into the boat .
`` Kee-reist '' ! !
The word hissed distinctly from Poet's lips as he struggled to his feet .
Nick's body became rigid .
Turning slowly he saw Poet in a brilliant glare of horror .
Poet ! !
His face was still creased in pain as he studied the underside of his arm .
Poet a murderer ? ?
Turning quickly toward Elaine , Nick saw that she , too , stood in shocked surprise .
The sudden silence was too silent .
Instinctively aware of the charged atmosphere , Poet raised his head slowly , looking first at Elaine .
She had caught the implication of the oath .
Her face was frozen into the mask of a mannequin , her body absolutely motionless .
And then Nick knew that all of them knew Elaine , himself and Poet .
Elaine recovered first , so quickly that Nick thought he might have imagined her sudden reaction .
`` Do you need a bandage '' ? ?
She asked steadily .
Poet rubbed his arm .
`` It's like banging a shin '' , he said , his eyes lingered on Nick's face , then moved back to Elaine .
`` Hurts like hell for a second , then it disappears '' .
`` I'll get some ointment '' .
Elaine turned and started toward the companionway .
But her walk was too steady , too slow , telegraphing her fear .
Nick sensed it .
So did Poet .
Springing like a cat , he leaped back , swooped up the spring gun and , whirling , pointed it toward the cabin .
At the same instant , Nick hit the barrel and threw himself upon the smaller man .
The gun fired next to his ear with a vicious whoosh like the first stroke of an old steam engine .
At the same instant , Elaine screamed wildly , the sound ending abruptly as Nick went off the boat and into the water on top of the frantic , struggling Poet .
The moment the sea closed over Nick , some atavistic sense warned him that he would survive in this alien element only if he did not panic .
But the murderer to whom he clung had a tremendous advantage .
The wide flippers on Poet's feet gave his legs incredible power , driving the two of them down into the water as they rolled over and over .
Poet was the captured , arms pinioned to his side , and he twisted convulsively trying to escape .
Poet would escape , Nick thought grimly , because he wore the apparatus which would keep him alive under water .
But Nick would not let go .
The rubber and glass face mask slipped from Poet's forehead , bounced painlessly off Nick's chin , then disappeared .
Poet twisted again and Nick's knuckles scraped on the air tank , ripping off the skin .
For a split second , Nick relaxed his grip and Poet's slippery body spun completely around before Nick could stop him , holding him now from the rear .
Something flailed at the side of Nick's head as they rolled around and around .
Suddenly Poet stopped struggling and the two of them hung suspended in the water , not rising , not sinking .
A sharp pain lanced across Nick's chest and a bubble of air escaped from his tortured lungs , joining dozens of others that sailed lazily toward the surface like helium balloons rising into the sky .
A black , snake-like object swayed eerily in front of him , spewing bubbles from its flat cobra head .
The air hose was free ! !
The discovery struck Nick like a blow .
Desperately , Nick flashed one hand up , catching Poet's neck in the bend of his elbow .
At the same instant , he grabbed the loose , writhing hose with his other hand and bit down on the hard rubber mouthpiece .
Instinctively he exhaled through his nose then sucked in the air from the hose .
At once the excruciating pain in his chest stopped and he was seized with a sudden , wild exultation .
As if this was a signal , Poet abruptly began to thrash the water and the quick movement slowly made them sink through the water .
Relentlessly , Nick held on , sucking on the hose , inhaling the air that belonged to Poet .
Poet was not fighting Nick now .
Harbor Point sticks out into the ocean like the fat neck of a steamer clam .
It's a rich village but not much for action -- too many solid residents , not enough tourists or working stiffs .
It's at the far end of the county and the last time I came here was for a hit and run manslaughter -- about seven months ago .
Chief Bob Moore looked his same hick-self ; ;
a man mountain running to lard in his middle-age .
Seeing me he said with real surprise , `` Well , well , ain't we honored ! !
Hardly expected the head of County Homicide up for this murder .
You sure climbed fast , Jed .
Rookie investigator last summer and now it's Inspector Jed .
Took me 19 years to become Chief of our three man police force .
Proves a college education pays off '' .
His sarcasm was followed by a stupid grin of his thick mouth and bad teeth .
`` I guess it helps '' , I said , paying no attention to his ribbing .
`` Never could figure out why you ever wanted to be a cop , Jed .
You're not only young but well , you don't even look like a police officer .
A runt with narrow shoulders and that brush haircut hell , you'd pass for a juvenile delinquent of the hotrod set .
In my day the first requirement for a cop was to look like the law , big and tough .
Man , when my 275 pounds and six-four comes along , why it's the same as another badge .
When I say move , a guy moves '' ! !
`` Don't worry about my being tough , Moore .
Also , it's far too early in the day for corny lines like the bigger they come You've had your gassy lecture , let's get to work .
Who was the murdered woman Mrs. Buck '' ? ?
`` Widow , nice sort of woman .
Comfortably fixed .
Ran a fair-sized farm .
Came to the Harbor as a bride and Don't worry Jed , this one is in the bag .
I know the killer , have the only road off the peninsula covered '' .
`` Yeah , passed your road block as I drove in '' , I said , sitting on his polished desk .
Although Bob dressed like a slob , he kept a neat office .
`` Okay , what happened '' ? ?
`` About nine this morning Mrs. Buck phones me she's having trouble with one of her farm hands -- money trouble .
Colored fellow named Tim Williams -- only hand she has working for her now .
Tim come with the migratory workers that follow the crops up from the South last year , but Tim and his wife settled here .
Never had no trouble with him before , thought he was a hard worker , hustling around to get a full week's work .
Anyway , Julia asks me to .
''
`` Julia '' ? ?
`` Come on , Inspector , look alive .
Julia Buck , the deceased '' , Moore said , slipping me his smug , idiot-grin again .
`` Julia asks me to come out at once .
But she didn't sound real alarmed you know , like there was any immediate danger .
I got there at 9:47 A.M. , found her strangled .
I would have come sooner if I'd known .
No doubt about Tim being the killer -- I have a witness .
Don't know why the County had to send anybody up here .
Told them I can handle this '' .
`` Yeah , seems you have a nice package , with all the strings tied .
Who's '' ? ?
`` I'll collar Tim before night '' .
`` Who's your witness '' ? ?
`` Julia had -- has -- an old Indian woman cooking for her -- Nellie Harris .
Probably the last of the original Island Indians .
Nellie was in the kitchen , had just come to work , when she heard Tim arguing with Julia in the living room .
Swears she recognized his voice , that Tim yelled , ' It's my money and I want it ' ! !
And then rushed out of the house .
Then she heard Julia phone me .
Nellie went on with her house work -- until I found Julia dead .
And before you say it , Nellie ain't near strong enough to have strangled Julia .
There's no doubt this Tim sneaked back and killed Mrs. Buck .
Another fact : Tim's disappeared -- on the run .
But there's no way off the Point except through my road block .
Guess you want to see the body -- have her up the street in Doc Abel's office '' .
`` Let's see it '' .
We walked up Main Street to this big white house , then around to the back .
Being the Harbor's sole doctor , Abel was also its Medical Examiner .
The corpse was on a table , covered by a sheet .
Doc Abel was busy up front with some of his live patients .
Pulling back the sheet , I examined the bruises around Julia Buck's once slender throat .
Powerful hands had killed her .
`` Find any prints '' ? ?
Chief Moore shook his big head , seemed lost in thought as he stared at the nude body .
Then he said , `` Never noticed it before I mean , when she was dressed but for a woman her age , Julia had a real fine figure '' .
I dropped the sheet , glanced at my watch .
It was almost one and I hadn't had lunch .
Still , I wanted to get this over with , had a lot of paper work waiting in my own office .
I told him , `` I want to go see the Buck house '' .
`` Sure '' .
Walking back down Main Street , I said , `` I saw the Harbor's one squad car at the road block , we'll ride out in my car '' .
`` Naw , we'll use mine '' , Moore said , opening the door of a sleek white Jaguar roadster .
As I slid in beside him he said , `` Some heap , hey ? ?
Got a heck of a buy on this , dirt cheap '' .
`` Yeah , it's a real load '' , I told him , looking up the street at my battered Ford .
Five racing minutes later we pulled into the driveway of this typical two-story house , and when the Jaguar stopped I managed to swallow .
There was a garage and a modern barn in the rear , all of it standing between two large flat fields planted in early potatoes .
Everything shouted gentleman farming , the kind of grandfather-father-to-son folding money the Point is known for .
The fins of a Caddy were sticking out of the garage , while the inside of the house was a comfortable mixture of old and expensive contemporary furniture .
Nellie Harris wasn't old , she was ancient -- a tiny shriveled woman with a face like a tan prune .
She was also stone deaf in her right ear .
She calmly repeated what Moore had told me .
When I asked , `` Why didn't you go into the living room to see how Mrs. Buck was '' ? ?
The old gal stared at me with her hard eyes , said , `` She didn't call .
I do the living room last .
I went up stairs and did the bath and her bedroom -- way I always do in the morning '' .
`` Have you any idea what this Tim and Mrs. Buck were arguing about '' ? ?
`` Probably wages .
Miss Julia was a hard woman with a dollar .
Years ago when I asked her to put me in Social Security , so's I wouldn't have to be working now , Miss Julia threatened to fire me -- all because it would mean a few more dollars a year to her '' .
`` Did you hear Tim return '' ? ?
`` No sir .
Nobody came until Chief Moore '' .
I drummed on the kitchen table with my pencil .
`` Mrs. Buck have any men friends '' ? ?
`` Her '' ? ?
The wrinkled mouth laughed , revealing astonishingly strong , white , teeth .
`` I never see none .
But then I wasn't her social secretary '' .
`` Was she on friendly terms with other members of her family '' ? ?
`` Didn't have no family -- around here .
They had a son -- killed in the war '' .
I walked into the living room .
There didn't seem to be any signs of a struggle .
I told Moore , `` Where does Tim's wife live '' ? ?
`` I'll take you there .
Look Jed , this is an open and shut case and I have to relieve my men at the road block soon .
Okay , come on '' .
We did 80 miles an hour across a hard dirt road to a cluster of shacks .
In late summer migratory workers lived five and six to a room in these .
Now they were empty , except for a cottage across the road .
Mrs. Tim Williams was about 21 , with skin the color of bitter chocolate , and if you discounted the plain dress and worn slippers , she was startlingly pretty .
The inside of their place was full of new furniture , five bucks down and a buck a week stuff , but all of it clean and full of the warmth of a home .
Mrs. Williams was both sullen and frightened .
She said she didn't know a thing -- Tim had left the house at six in the morning , as usual .
She hadn't seen him since .
`` Did Mrs. Buck owe him any wages '' ? ?
I asked .
`` Well , for this week , but they wasn't due 'till Saturday .
Listen , Mr. Inspector , no matter what anybody say , my Tim didn't kill that woman ! !
Tim is a good man , hard working .
He strong as a bull but gentle as a baby .
Even if he angry , Tim wouldn't hurt a woman .
He never in his life took a hand to a woman or ''
`` We'll get him soon , see what he says '' , Chief Moore cut in .
`` Does your husband have a car '' ? ?
I asked .
`` Got us an old station wagon .
Need it for the job '' .
I asked a silly question : `` You've no idea where your husband could be , now '' ? ?
She shook her head .
I knew she was lying .
I stood there , staring at her for a moment -- thinking mostly of her beauty and her poverty .
Moore said , `` Come on , Jed , I have to get to my men '' .
On my way out I told her , `` If you should eh just happen to see your husband , get him to give himself up .
He'll get a fair trial .
Hiding out like this won't get him anything , except more trouble , or a bullet '' .
`` Yes .
I'll tell him -- if I see him '' .
We made it back to the Harbor in less than four minutes .
I tried not to act scared .
That Jaguar could really barrel along .
I told Moore I was going to eat , get some forms filled out by Doc Abel .
Chief Moore said , `` If I don't see you when I return , see you for certain at my road block , Inspector '' .
I had a bowl of decent chowder , phoned the Doc and he said he'd leave the death statements with his girl -- in a half hour .
Lighting my pipe , I took a walk .
The Harbor is a big yachting basin in the summer .
Even now , there were several slick cruisers tied to the dock , an ocean-going yawl anchored inside the breakwater .
There was a 34 foot Wheeler with Chief Bob's in big gold letters on its stern also tied up at the dock .
It wasn't a new boat , about five years old , but fitted with fishing outriggers and chairs .
I asked an old guy running a fishing station if the boat was Moore's .
He said , `` You bet .
Bob Moore is plumb crazy about blue fishing '' .
I dropped into the doctor's office , picked up my forms .
As I was walking back to the Police Station , which was in the same building with the City Hall and Post Office , I saw Mrs. Tim Williams sneaking into the back of my car .
If she moved gracefully , she was clumsy at it .
I got into the front seat .
She was ' hiding ' on the floor of the back seat , the soft curves of her back and hips -- rousing lines .
I drove out of the Harbor , turned off into a dirt road among the scrub pine trees and stopped .
I waited a few minutes and she sat up .
For another moment we didn't talk , then she began to weep .
She mumbled , `` I just know that Chief Moore is out to kill my Tim '' ! !
`` Maybe .
I never saw him so anxious before '' , I said , lighting my pipe and offering her a cigarette .
`` Of course , it could be because this is his first murder case .
You know where Tim is , don't you , Mrs. Williams '' ? ?
She puffed on the cigarette slowly , sitting slumped against the back seat ; ;
didn't answer .
But the police have dropped the case .
I want you to go to Pearson City and find out why -- first-hand stuff for your modern crime series .
Take the same train Diana Beauclerk took and get there at the same time .
Go to the same hotel and occupy the same suite -- 1105 '' .
`` Will the hotel rent it so soon after the crime '' ? ?
`` Why not ? ?
The police have finished with it .
Besides , the number of the suite hasn't been published in any newspaper .
To the hotel people , you'll just be an innocent tourist who happens to ask for that particular suite '' .
`` Still , they may not want to rent it '' .
`` That's your headache .
Once inside , keep your eyes open '' ! !
`` For what '' ! !
Alec was growing more and more skeptical .
`` The police will have gone over every square inch of the place with a fine-tooth comb .
The hotel people will have scoured and vacuumed it .
Ten to one , it's even been redecorated '' ! !
`` There's always a chance they may have overlooked something '' , returned the chief .
`` I'm betting on that chance .
Interview the bellboy and chambermaid who waited on Beauclerk .
Study the topography of the suite .
Soak up local color .
Reenact everything Beauclerk did .
Try to imagine you're going to be murdered yourself -- between eleven p.m. and one a.m. the night you arrive '' .
Alec smirked .
`` Cheerful way to spend an evening '' ! !
A sudden thought wiped the smirk from his face .
`` Suppose the murderer should return to the scene of the crime '' ! !
The chief's eyes gleamed .
He spoke softly .
`` That is exactly what I'm hoping for .
After all , the murderer is still at large .
And the key to the suite is still missing '' .
On the train Alec refreshed his memory of the Beauclerk case by reading teletype flimsies -- spot-news stories about the crime sent out by the Pearson City Star , a member of the Syndicate Press .
Diana Beauclerk was a second-rate actress living in New York .
Two weeks ago she had gone west to Pearson City .
Daniel Forbes , her divorced husband , lived there .
So did the firm of lawyers who had got her the divorce , Kimball and Stacy .
She reached Pearson City at nine p.m. and went straight to the Hotel Westmore .
She telephoned the junior partner of her law firm , Martin Stacy , and asked him to call at her hotel that evening .
At the time of her divorce Forbes had promised to pay her a lump sum in lieu of further alimony if she remarried .
According to Stacy , she told him she was planning to remarry and she wanted him to ask Forbes for the lump sum .
Stacy replied that it would bankrupt Forbes , who had just sunk all his money in a real estate venture .
Stacy said he left her suite at nine forty-five p.m. .
She was in good health and spirits , but still determined to get the money from Forbes .
No one saw Stacy leave .
No other visitor inquired for her that evening .
Next morning she was found dead in her suite with a bullet from a
Colt revolver in her brain .
According to the medical examiner , she was shot between eleven p.m. and one a.m. .
Her door was locked and the key was missing .
So was the gun .
When Alec finished reading he was sure that either Forbes or Stacy had killed Diana Beauclerk .
Forbes had motive and Stacy had opportunity .
Find a motive for Stacy or an opportunity for Forbes and the case would be solved .
The Hotel Westmore proved to be one of the older hotels in Pearson City , and definitely second-rate .
Alec's first impression of the lobby was gloomy , Victorian dignity -- black walnut and red plush , a black and white tiled floor , and Persian rugs .
He studied the night clerk as a man measures an adversary .
`` I'd like the room I had the last time '' .
`` Certainly , sir '' .
The clerk was young and limp , with a tired smile .
`` Do you recall the number '' ? ?
`` It was 1105 '' .
The clerk's smile congealed .
`` That suite is taken '' .
Alec's glance went to a chart of guest names and room numbers hanging on the wall behind the clerk .
Opposite the number 1105 stood one word : Unoccupied .
The clerk's glance followed Alec's .
`` We have better rooms vacant now '' , he babbled .
`` Larger and more comfortable .
At the same rate '' .
Alec's face was dark , blunt , and sulky .
He always looked impertinent and he could look dangerous .
He was looking dangerous now .
He raised his voice .
`` Anything wrong with the plumbing in 1105 '' ? ?
There was a sudden stillness in the lobby .
Two women , who had been chattering like parrots , were struck dumb .
A man , lighting a match for his cigar , paused until the flame burned his fingers .
Even the bellboys on their bench were listening .
The clerk's eyes flickered .
`` Of course not '' ! !
`` Anybody with a contagious disease been in there '' ? ?
`` No '' ! !
The clerk was almost hysterical .
`` It's just that -- well , 1105 is being redecorated '' .
`` I don't believe it '' .
Alec leaned on the desk , holding the clerk's eyes with his .
`` Suppose you tell me the real reason '' , he drawled .
`` There might be a story in it '' .
`` St-story '' ? ?
`` I'm with the Syndicated Press , Feature Service .
Either I get the story -- or I get the suite '' .
It was blackmail and the clerk knew it .
`` There is no story '' , he piped tremulously .
`` Front ! !
Show this gentleman to 1105 '' ! !
The stillness persisted as Alec followed a bellboy across the lobby to the elevator .
He could feel eyes on his back .
He wished it had not been necessary to announce the number of his suite quite so publicly .
The corridor on the eleventh floor was dimly lighted by electric globes at intervals of thirty feet .
A thick , crimson carpet muffled every footfall .
At the end of the corridor Alec noticed a door marked : Fire Stairs .
It was a neat setup for murder .
The bellboy unlocked a white door numbered 1105 .
The room was dark but a neon sign flashed and faded beyond the window .
A few snowflakes sifted down through that theatrical red glow , languid as falling feathers .
Hastily the boy switched on a ceiling light .
The room looked normal and even commonplace .
There was no hint of a violent struggle now .
Deal furniture with a mahogany finish was neatly arranged as if it stood in the window of a department store .
The blue rug was suspiciously bright and new .
It had never been stained with blood .
Table covers and towels were clean , ashtrays empty and supplied with fresh matches .
The mirror over the bureau was a blank eye , round and innocent .
Alec played the part of an innocent tourist .
`` Is there anything wrong with this room '' ? ?
`` N-no '' .
The boy dropped his eyes .
`` Afraid you'll lose your job if you don't keep your mouth shut '' ? ?
The boy raised his eyes .
`` Listen , mister .
If you want my advice , pack up and take the next train back to New York '' .
`` Were you on duty here two weeks ago '' ? ?
The boy hesitated .
Then , `` I'm not talking .
But I wouldn't spend a night in here for a million bucks '' ! !
He was in a hurry to get out of the room .
Alec gave him a tip and let him go .
Alone , Alec examined the doors .
There were three -- one leading to a bathroom , one to the hall , and one to the room next door which was immovable -- locked or bolted on the other side .
Alec locked the hall door and put the key with his watch on the bedside table .
It was just quarter of nine .
As he ranged his belongings on the bureau he noticed a film of white dust on the dark surface of the wood beyond the linen cover .
Not gray like the dust that collects in an unused room , but white .
Women didn't use white face powder nowadays , he recalled .
They used pink , tan , or cream powder .
Alec glanced into the bathroom .
Blood in the bathtub where the murderer appears to have washed his hands .
It seemed clean now , but Alec decided against a bath .
He crawled into bed and switched off the light .
In the darkness he could see the rosy reflection of the neon sign on the wall opposite the window .
It winked as steadily as a metronome -- on , off -- on , off .
In less than five minutes Alec was asleep .
He never knew just what woke him .
Yet suddenly he was wide-awake .
There was no sound and apparently no movement in the room except the noiseless pulsation of the red light on the wall .
He lay still , listening to the silence , watching the light .
Somewhere in the city a big clock sounded twelve solemn notes -- midnight .
According to the medical examiner she was shot between eleven p.m. and one a.m. .
Alec heard a faint sound .
His heart seemed to swell and knock against the wall of his chest .
For the sound was inside the room .
He let his eyelids droop and breathed heavily , feigning sleep .
The sound was coming nearer .
A monstrous shadow fell across the illuminated wall , distorted and indefinable .
When the neon sign faded out , the shadow disappeared .
When the neon sign flashed on , the shadow was still there .
It stretched to an impossible height , climbing the wall to the ceiling .
That meant that something between the light and its reflection on the wall was moving closer to the source of the light -- in this case , the window .
Cautiously Alec tensed his muscles , ready to jump .
The bedsprings betrayed him with a creak .
The shadow vanished .
Someone had moved beyond the range of the light from the window .
Abandoning caution , Alec leaped out of bed and groped for the light switch .
Before he could snap it on , a stinging blow caught him in the ribs .
He lashed out blindly with his right .
There was a thick , squashy crack of fist on flesh .
Something hard grazed his knuckles .
He put everything he had into the next and aimed down where the stomach ought to be .
Rough cloth rasped his fist .
There was a grunt , curiously inarticulate , like that of an animal in pain .
Something heavy shook the floor as it dropped .
Alec waited a moment , on guard .
Nothing happened .
Again he groped for the light switch .
The blue rug had been rolled up and stacked in one corner of the room .
On the bare floorboards a man lay face down .
He had a short , heavy , powerful body .
Alec turned him over and discovered a round , lumpy face with narrow , slanting eyes -- a primitive Tartar face from Russia or the Balkans .
The man's shoes were too pointed , his overcoat too broad at the shoulders and too narrow at the waist .
There was a slight bulge under the left armpit -- a shoulder holster .
Alec promptly removed the gun .
He was familiar with this type .
He had seen it in the lineup at Police Headquarters in New York , in Broadway night clubs and Seventh Avenue pool rooms , in the criminal courts .
But he was surprised to meet it here .
Diana Beauclerk had no connection with the underworld .
A professional gunman would not have killed her with a weapon of such small caliber as a
.
Nor would he choose a respectable hotel as the scene for a killing when it would be so much safer to take his victim for a one-way ride on a lonely country road .
The man's eyelids fluttered .
He opened his eyes .
`` What are you doing here '' ? ?
Demanded Alec .
The man made no reply .
His eyes were dazed .
His lips were bruised and swollen where Alec had hit him .
`` Did you kill Diana Beauclerk '' ? ?
Alec expected an indignant denial , but there was no response at all .
`` Oh , come on , snap out of it ! !
Or I'll turn you over to the police '' ! !
The silence was getting on Alec's nerves .
The man opened his mouth , but no words came .
Only that curious , animal grunting Alec had heard during their fight .
`` Don't you speak English '' ? ?
The man opened his mouth wider .
A forefinger pointed toward his gullet .
Alec leaned forward to look .
There were hideous scars inside the throat and the palate was mutilated .
In good time I shall get to the distressing actuality , to Red McIver and Handley Walker , to murder and sudden death .
But you realize , I am sure , how much old deeds incite to new ones , and you must forgive me if I tell you first of the old ones .
It was in 1814 that Abraham Wharf and his sister sat by a meager fire in their house on Dogtown Common , a desolate place even then .
He was sharpening his razor .
`` Sister '' , said he `` do you think people who commit suicide go to heaven '' ? ?
And she answered , `` I don't know , but I hope you'll never do such a thing '' .
Without a tremor , `` God forbid '' ! !
He said , and went out and cut his throat in the cave near Granny Day's swamp .
What has this to do with the present ? ?
Much , I assure you .
You must know what gets into people , even such as Red and Handley , before you can tell what comes out of them .
They had learned , both of them , about Abraham Wharf .
That's why I beg you not to forget him .
His ghost is not laid .
Red and Handley , God help them , knew the old Dogtown lore ; ;
and I knew they knew it , for I'd told them a lot of it .
And isn't it true that you get a deeper perception about a man and his motives when you know what it is he knows ? ?
Yes , gentlemen , I am getting to the point , to my point .
You know the facts ; ;
they are set forth in your own newspapers .
You want from me the story , but a story is about ' why ' and then , perhaps , about how .
The ' when ' you know ; ;
yesterday morning .
So what I am trying to tell you is the ' why ' -- that is my point -- and that concerns the spirit of the matter .
There is an inwardness and a luster to old furniture ( look at that mahogany highboy behind you ) which has a provocative emanation , if I may say so .
Places , too , have their haunting qualities .
Even people .
And my point in this sad story is the spirit of the matter .
When you hold the spirit of a thing , then somehow you know the truth -- you know a fake antique from the real thing .
And the truth is what you've come for , is it not ? ?
Now , Dogtown is one of those places that creeps into the marrow as worms get into old wood , under the veneer .
In fact , all the folk who lived on the back of Cape Ann , they are not just like others .
There's a different hall-mark on them .
There were no witch burnings here because everyone had a witch in the family .
Just think of old Granther Stannard who pulled the teeth of Dark Younger ( her real name was Dorcas ) , and because he bungled the job and left two protruding tusks she put such a hex on him that he thought his legs were made of glass .
After that he was never known to run or even walk fast .
Today Dogtown is the only deserted village in all New England that I know of .
There it sits , a small highland , with towns like Gloucester near by ; ;
but now it's the most lost and tortured place in the world .
Those who lived in that desolation of rocky deformity took on some of the moraine's stony character .
Scientists say it is the last spewings of a great glacier , but one rather feels that only a malevolent giant could have piled up those crouching monsters of granite which still seem to preserve a sort of suspended , ominous life in them .
We'll walk up there later .
It's perhaps a mile from here where we sit .
And not one single dwelling left there , though once , in the early eighteenth century , there were close to a hundred houses .
( I myself have identified about sixty sites , from the old maps and registers .
A fascinating pursuit , I assure you .
) Even I can remember nothing but ruined cellars and tumbled pillars , and nobody has lived there in the memory of any living man .
It is now a sweep of boulders and ledges , with oak , walnut and sumac creeping across the common , and everywhere the ruins and the long , long shadows .
That's your setting , and a sinister one .
Please get that in your reports .
It accounts for so many things .
Both Red McIver and Handley Walker lived nearby , almost as near as I do .
Red lived at Lanesville , and from his house he could be up on the Common in a half hour's brisk walk ; ;
Handley lived further on , at Pigeon Cove .
I'd often find one or other of them up around Dogtown sketching .
They were both painters , ( They were ? ?
They are ? ?
What should one say ? ?
) Well , anyhow , Dogtown Common is so much off the beaten track nowadays that only Sunday picnickers still stray up there , from time to time .
Sea-road , railroad , lack of water , killed Dogtown .
Dead , dead as a brass door nail , and I sometimes feel like the Sexton , for I'm about the last to be even interested .
I knew Red and Handley well .
As I said , they were both painters .
They'd come , separately , to Gloucester some twenty years ago -- there's always been an artists' colony somewhere on Cape Ann -- and each married here .
They married cousins , Anta and Freya Norberg .
There are a lot of Scandinavians in this neck of the woods , and many still make painted furniture and take steam-baths .
Pretty girls among them , with blonde hair and pert faces .
Handley married Freya and Red , of the red beard , married Anta .
And it was because of an old Norberg inheritance that I got to understand them all so well .
The quarrel ended in a ridiculous draw , but I must tell you about it .
Oh , yes , I'm quite sure it's important , because of the Beech Pasture .
What's that ? ?
Why , that's what gave me the feeling , gave me as-it-were the spirit , the demoniac , evil spirit of this whole affair .
You see , besides being custodian of antiquities , I am also registrar .
No , I don't hold with those who live entirely among dead things .
I know as well as the next man that a ship is called from the rigging she carries , where the live wind blows , and not from the hull .
But you've got to know both .
What's below the water-line interests me also .
As I was saying , I've known all about the old records , including the old Norberg deed .
Some ten years ago that page was torn out , I don't know by whom .
About five years ago , Handley came to ask me if he could see the tattered register .
He was courteous and casual about it , as though it were of no consequence .
He's always like that , in spite of being a big man .
( When you see him , you'll notice his habit of fingering , I might almost say , stroking a large mole with black hairs on it , by his right temple .
) A sensual man , but very courteous , some would say slick .
Like his glossy black hair .
Too many outside manners , to my taste .
He is the sort who , with an appraising eye , would cross the street to help a strange woman on to a bus and then pinch her .
A real gentleman , I feel , would do neither .
He's always worn a broad-brimmed hat , and I've noticed , in my small study at the Society , that he rather smells of cosmetics .
The next week , cousin Red wandered in as casually , but curt and untidy .
Red was small and fine-boned , like ivory-inlay .
He too asked to see the same page .
When I told him someone had torn it out , he shouted .
`` By God , it's that damn Handley , the sneak '' ! !
And later in the same week they both came together to examine the register .
Fortunately we were alone in the building -- so few people nowadays are interested even in their own past or in the lovely craft of other days -- for they began to abuse each other in the foulest language .
Red thrusting out his tawny beard , Handley glowering under his suddenly rumpled black hair .
They actually bristled .
Le rouge et le noir .
Violent men both .
Red always was morose , yet that day the dapper Handley was the louder of the two .
But for my presence , they would have been at each others' throats .
During the quarrel I learned what the trouble was , from the accusations each hurled at the other .
The Beech Pasture had suddenly become valuable .
There's a fine granite quarry there , and granite's coming back for public buildings .
Both men knew it was in the Norberg family holdings , but to which of the cousins did it belong , Anta or Freya ? ?
Fortunately , I knew almost exactly what the will had said .
It began with a preamble , of course .
This explained that the judge of probate of Essex County , 1785 or 1786 , appointed three free-holders of Gloucester to divide and establish the Norberg estate .
After the usual Honorable Sirs , it went on to say that there had been set off to the widow one full third part of the real estate of the deceased Salu Norberg , one lower room , on the Western side , privileges to the well and bake-oven and to one third of the cellar ( I can show you the cellar when we go up ) , also one Cow Right , and lastly they set off to the widow her own land that she brought with her as dower , namely the Beech Pasture .
And I remember that the whole of the privileges , not counting the Beech Pasture , was valued at twenty pounds .
I wish you could have seen the crests fall on these two sparring coxcombs when I told them that obviously the pasture belonged to their wives jointly .
That battle scene , ridiculous as it was , remained in my mind .
A disturbing picture of bad blood , to be further heightened with illicit if buccolic colors , for on a subsequent day I saw Handley escorting Anta , Red's wife , up on Dogtown Common .
I felt it would be inopportune to disclose my presence .
Not that I intentionally go unperceived , but the boulders up there are very high and I am a small woman .
One other cause of jealousy between them I must tell you .
Paint ! !
Gloomy and unkempt as Red McIver was , he was much the better painter .
I suppose Handley knew it .
If Red had a show at Gloucester , Handley would hurry to hang his pictures in Rockport .
You may say this has little pertinence , but , gentlemen , remember that all this prepared my mind , alerted my intelligence .
By such touches the pattern takes shape .
You would call these the motives of crime .
I would call them the patterns of life , perhaps even the designs of destiny .
Yet with all this knowledge I had nothing of substance to unravel our case , as you would call it , till yesterday .
One month ago , on the 20th of October , was the opening of the gunning season in Massachusetts .
Not much to shoot , but there are a few pheasant .
Rabbits , too , if you care for them , which most of the folk around here haven't the sense to appreciate .
Any more than they have the sense to eat mussels .
That was the day Red was said to have gone away .
Oh yes , he'd talked about doing so .
In fact , he often disappeared , from time to time , -- off to paint the sea , aboard a dragger out from Gloucester .
Anta , his wife , never seemed to mind .
I suppose these absences gave her more clearance for her embraces with Cousin Handley .
Anyhow , I wasn't surprised , early that morning , to see Handley himself crossing from Dogtown Common Road to the Back Road .
No , he didn't have his gun , which he should have .
It would have been a good excuse for his being there at all .
I myself had been up there by seven o'clock , after mushrooms , since there'd been a week of rain which had stopped early that morning and the day was as clear as Sandwich glass .
That's what the man had said .
Haney peered doubtfully at his drinking companion through bleary , tear-filled eyes .
He had no ready answer , as much from surprise as from the fit of coughing .
Was the man drunk or crazy or both ? ?
But his new-found buddy had matched him drink for drink until he lost count , and the man's eyes were still clear .
The guy is off his rocker , Haney thought to himself , and looked away from those eyes .
Eyes that were clear , but also bright with a strange intensity , a sort of cold fire burning behind them .
Why hadn't he noticed it before ? ?
No , the man was not drunk
He wondered how he got tied up with this stranger .
But , of course , he remembered now .
It was blurred , after two hours of steady drinking , but the occasion of it came back to him .
The stranger , his head seemingly sunk in thought , started to cross the street against the light just as a huge moving van roared through the intersection .
Brakes howled and a horn blared furiously , but the man would have been hit if Phil hadn't called out to him a second before .
His shout had been involuntary , something anybody might have done without thinking , on the spur of the moment .
As a matter of fact , he wouldn't have cared at all if the guy had been hit .
Actually , he regretted having opened his mouth when the truck came to a stop and the angry driver jumped down from the cab and walked back toward them .
By then , the stranger was thanking Haney profusely and had one arm around his shoulders as if he were an old friend .
So the driver started to curse at both of them as if they had been in a plot together to ruin his safe-driving record .
Then the man he saved turned and looked squarely into the truck driver's face , without saying a word .
Very suddenly , the driver stopped swearing at them , turned on his heel and went back to his truck .
Haney hadn't given it much thought at the time .
Now he recalled it very clearly , and wondered what the truck driver had seen in those eyes to make him back off .
It must have been the sort of look that can call a bluff without saying a word .
When the light went their way , they went on across the street .
And when the stranger found out that Phil was on the way to one of his favorite bars , he insisted on offering to buy drinks for both of them .
Phil usually went alone and kept to himself , sitting in a corner and passing the time by nursing his favorite grudges .
But he decided he wouldn't mind company in return for free drinks , even though he made good money at his job .
Phil was like that .
Now he wondered if it was worth it , having a screwball for company .
He really didn't take the offer seriously , but he began to feel uneasy .
When he finally got the coughing under control , he realized that Pete ( all he gave was his first name ) was still waiting for an answer -- he didn't even seem to wink as he continued to stare .
Haney managed a weak laugh .
`` Guess I can't think of anyone , Pete .
Thanks anyhow '' .
A faint crease appeared between the man's eyebrows .
`` I think you aren't taking me seriously , Phil .
I meant it .
And everybody has some kind of grudge .
I might have got hit by that truck if it wasn't for you .
I believe in returning favors .
I'll do anything for somebody I like .
It won't cost you a cent , Phil .
Go ahead and try me '' ! !
Phil rubbed his forehead wearily .
He was beginning to feel woolly .
Maybe it would be better to humor the guy and then make an exit .
He really didn't expect anything to come of it , and there were a few people
`` All right '' , he conceded finally , `` if you must know , I don't get along with the landlord .
He keeps riding me because I like to listen to the radio and sing while I'm taking a bath .
He says the neighbors complain , but I don't believe it .
Why don't they tell me themselves if it bothers them '' ? ?
The man closed his eyes and nodded .
When he looked up again , he seemed almost contented .
`` Fine .
Give me your address .
It will take a little time .
I want to study your landlord's habits and movements first .
You see , I always make it look like an accident .
Maybe suicide , if it looks reasonable .
In that way there's no trouble for the customer '' .
Haney's eyebrows flew up .
`` Customer '' ? ?
Pete smiled modestly .
`` It's my line of work '' , he said
Five minutes later , before Haney could make his break , the stranger stood up and nodded farewell .
Haney watched the small but wiry man slip out the door quickly and silently , and felt relieved to see that nobody else seemed to notice his departure .
Phil decided to stay a little longer , and as time passed it seemed as if the strange little man had never been there , but for the other glass on the table .
Some time before midnight he returned to his apartment and hit the sack , putting the whole incident out of mind before he fell asleep .
The next day , Sunday , the hangover reminded Haney where he had been the night before .
The hangover in turn reminded him of his conversation with the weirdy , and he groaned .
He went for more aspirin later in the day , and passed the surly landlord on the way -- he was still alive and scowling as usual , as if tenants were a burden in his life .
Phil shrugged and ignored him .
He went back to work Monday .
By Wednesday the landlord was still alive .
Of course On Thursday , Haney mailed the monthly check for separate maintenance to his wife Lolly , and wished the stranger could do something about her
Coming home from work , he was startled to see a police car parked in front of the apartment building .
Inside the lobby , people were standing around , talking excitedly .
His spine crawled with a foreboding premonition as he asked one of his fellow tenants what had happened .
The landlord had died .
Late that afternoon , it seemed , he had fallen off the roof while on some obscure errand or inspection .
He had apparently been alone .
Nobody witnessed the fall -- just the sickening impact when his body smashed on the pavement just outside the basement delivery entrance .
Haney hoped that nobody noticed his sudden pallor , as he felt the blood drain from his cheeks .
He muttered something about how terrible it was , and walked with deliberate slowness to the elevator .
Once inside his apartment , he poured a drink with trembling hands and flopped limply in a chair .
After a while he began to feel better about it , especially when no one bothered to ask any questions .
But after all , why should they ? ?
Still later , he finally convinced himself that it was an accident -- just a coincidence .
The stranger really had nothing to do with it , of course
Haney went to bed , happy that at least he was rid of that lousy landlord .
After all , the man had no family , so no one suffered , and everybody was better off for it .
Really , he said to himself , nobody kills a man just as a favor ! !
So you thought I didn't mean what I said .
The stranger's eyes were large and sad , as if Phil Haney had hurt his feelings .
It was like a recurrent , annoying dream , but now the dream was beginning to take on overtones of a nightmare .
However , Haney knew it was not a dream .
He might be very tight , but he knew where he was .
It was the same bar , and it was two weeks later -- Saturday night , when he had an excuse to drink heavier than usual .
He had been sitting in the usual corner at the little table , as far as possible from any talkative , friendly lushes .
He was enjoying the weekly ritual of washing down his pet grievance with bourbon slightly moistened with water .
This favorite grievance was not the landlord .
He had already quite forgotten about him .
In fact , he had only mentioned him on the spur of the moment .
His real grievance was Lolly .
Toward the end of his fourth hairy highball , while he was moodily making wet rings on the table-top with the bottom of the glass , he became aware that he was not alone .
He looked up with bloodshot eyes and beheld the stranger sitting across the table , smiling a secret smile at him , as if they were fellow conspirators .
He hadn't even noticed -- what was his name ? ?
Pete ? ?
-- he hadn't seen him sit down .
The man was uncanny , like a shadow , and made as much noise as a shadow .
Haney felt like shrinking out of sight , but he was already trapped in the corner with the wiry , dark little man .
He began to wish that he hadn't shouted that other evening when the truck bore down through the crossing .
Was he going to be saddled from now on with a creep for a bar-buddy ? ?
He'd have to start going to some of the other places again .
In a low voice , almost whispering , the man had asked Phil if he was happy with the way the landlord had been taken off his back .
He made the mistake of answering in an offhand way , and instantly realized that his skepticism must have showed in his face or voice .
Pete frowned slightly , then became sad and moody .
Haney didn't want to encourage his company , but felt he ought to buy him a drink anyhow , to prevent possible trouble .
But there was no trouble .
The guy sulked over his drink , obviously upset by Haney's lack of appreciation .
To break the uncomfortable silence , Haney began to talk .
In time , and two drinks later , he was complaining bitterly about his wife , He was on the subject for ten minutes or so when he noticed the renewed interest in his listener -- it showed in the alert face and the suddenly bright eyes .
When he paused to moisten his throat , the stranger broke in .
`` But why pay her bills ? ?
If she runs around with other men , and if you hate her as you say , why not just divorce her '' ? ?
Haney scowled .
`` That bitch would love a divorce '' , he growled .
`` Then she'd get half of everything I have .
Community property deal -- you know .
I'd have to sell out my business to pay her off with her share .
She can drop dead '' ! !
Pete nodded understandingly .
`` Oh yes .
Now I see .
You must understand , I haven't been in this state too long .
I came out here to retire .
That's why I -- why I do a free job now and then .
You should have told me about her before '' .
Haney felt a twinge of annoyance when he heard the now familiar line again .
Then a wild thought ran circles through his clouded brain .
Suppose -- just suppose this guy was really what he said he was ! !
A retired professional killer If he was just a nut , no harm was done .
But if he was the real thing , he could do something about Lolly .
He felt very cunning , very proud of himself as he played on the other man's soft spot .
`` No offense intended '' , he said gently .
`` But it's just that -- well , you know .
The cops didn't suspect a thing , and I thought it was a coincidence .
After all , I didn't know you , Pete .
It could have been an accident '' .
He shrugged casually .
`` But if you say you managed it '' The stranger was hooked .
His eyes burned feverishly .
`` Yes , yes '' , he muttered impatiently .
`` Of course it looked like an accident .
I always work it that way -- and always at a time when the customer has an alibi .
Let me prove it , Phil .
I think I can manage one more favor for you '' .
He waited eagerly .
Haney swished the liquor in the bottom of his glass .
About halfway back Pops groped against a wall and stopped , pulled away two loosely nailed wide boards at one end , and went through .
`` C'mon '' , he whispered ; ;
`` floor level's about three feet down , so don't fall '' .
I went through and down , into pitch darkness .
He said , `` Jist stay still .
I'll pull the boards back and then get us a light .
Jist stay where you are '' .
I jist stayed where I was while he fumbled around and then walked away .
A moment later he struck a match and lighted a candle , and I could see .
It was a big room , empty except for a few things of Pops's at the far end -- a wooden crate on which stood the candle , a spread out blanket , and an unrolled bindle .
I looked back over my shoulder while I went to join him ; ;
he'd hung another half of a blanket over the boarded window so no light would show through .
I took the pint bottle from my pocket and handed it over as I sat down beside him on the spread blanket .
`` You first '' , I said .
He drank and handed it back .
`` Nice place '' , I told him .
`` Listen , I got a buddy I travel with , real nice guy named Larry .
I know where he is , right near here .
Could he join the party and sleep here tonight too ? ?
We'll both be blowing town tomorrow so we won't be moving in on you '' .
He hesitated a second , looking at the bottle , before he said `` Sure-sure '' , and I reassured him .
`` He'll bring a bottle too , and I'll get another one or maybe two while I'm out .
You can work on this one while I'm gone , kill it if you want '' .
I took a short swallow from it myself and handed it to him .
His `` sure-sure '' was enthusiastic this time .
He put the bottle down .
`` Git over by the window while there's light , an' I'll put th' candle out .
When yuh come back I'll put it out agin till you're both inside '' .
Charlie was waiting , leaning against a building front .
`` Perfect set-up '' , I told him .
`` But we got to go back to Fifth and get another bottle or two .
On the way I'll give you the scoop '' .
On the way I gave him the scoop .
I bought another pint of sherry and when we got back Pops let us in in the dark , put back the blanket and then lighted the candle again .
I introduced my friend Larry to Pops and we made ourselves comfortable .
There was still a little , not much , left in the first bottle and we passed it around once and killed it , and Charlie opened his .
I was reminded , amusedly , by a poem of Kenneth Patchen's called The Murder of Two Men by a Young Kid Wearing Lemon Colored Gloves , which Patchen himself read on a record against jazz background .
The poem consisted of only two words , the word `` Wait '' , repeated over and over at irregular intervals and with different inflections , and then the word `` Now '' ! !
And a blaring final chord from the jazz group .
This was the same , except that it was the murder of one man by two men and neither of us was wearing gloves .
But we could wait all right ; ;
there was no hurry .
I said , `` Wait wait '' to Charlie and he grinned , digging the reference .
We'd heard the record together once .
The second bottle passed a few times .
Pops was taking long ones , but not showing the effect yet .
He seemed as drunk as when I'd first talked to him , but no drunker .
He had a capacity ; ;
if we'd really been trying to get him dead drunk we'd have had to go out for more wine .
About halfway through the second bottle , Charlie looked at me across Pops , who was sitting between us and asked `` Now '' ? ?
I said , `` Wait '' , and handed the bottle to Pops for his final drink .
When he handed it back and I had hold of it safely , Pops was looking toward me and I said `` Now '' , to Charlie and he swung the short length of lead pipe he'd meanwhile taken from his pocket , once .
It was a lead pipe cinch .
There was a sound like the one you produce by flicking a watermelon with your finger , only louder , and Pops fell forward from the waist and then over sidewise .
Out cold , if not dead ; ;
and he'd never known what hit him -- he'd never known that anything had hit him .
I reached my hand toward him to put it inside his shirt to feel for a heartbeat , but Charlie said `` Wait '' ! !
-- and said it sharply , not as in the Patchen bit , but as an order -- so I stopped my hand and looked at him .
He was holding the piece of lead pipe out to me .
`` We don't want to know whether he's dead , yet .
I gauged that blow to be borderline .
To kayo him and maybe or maybe not kill .
You hit again about twice that hard before we know whether he's dead or not .
That way we'll never know which of us really killed him and which was just the accomplice .
Dig '' ? ?
I dug him , I saw his point ; ;
it made sense .
I took the piece of pipe from Charlie's hand and used it , harder than he had .
The thunk was louder , anyway , and I thought I heard bone crack .
Charlie said , `` Good boy .
That did it , if mine didn't .
And we'll never know which .
All right , now I'll give you a hand '' .
We straightened Pops up and I made sure there was no trace of a heartbeat .
I nodded to Charlie .
`` Let's put him down again the way he was .
It's a more natural position '' .
We did that .
`` How do you feel '' ? ?
Charlie asked me .
`` Cool '' , I told him .
`` What do you feel '' ? ?
`` Nothing .
Well maybe I'm exaggerating .
It was a kick , but not a big enough one for me to want to take the chance again , except for stakes .
But let's not talk about it abstractly until we're out of here .
Now , first question : the bottles .
Shall we take them all with us , or leave one '' ? ?
`` Take them '' , I said .
`` If we left one we'd have to wipe it for fingerprints .
Here's the picture we want to leave for the fuzz -- whenever the body gets found .
This happened in the middle of a drinking bout with another bum .
If they'd been working on a bottle or a jug he'd have taken it with him '' .
`` Right .
And he'd have taken the weapon with him too , so we take that .
Now '' -- He looked around .
`` I've been careful about fingerprints .
How about you '' ? ?
`` Same .
There are the boards over the window , of course , but they're not painted and too rough to take prints .
Same goes for the rough cement of the ledge .
Besides , I doubt if the cops will even try dusting .
They find dead winos every day , maybe they won't even autopsy him for the cause of death '' .
`` We can't take a chance on that .
We've got to assume they'll decide he was murdered and we've got to keep the picture consistent .
Our hypothetical other bum who killed him would have turned out his pockets .
Let's do that '' .
We did that and found a dirty handkerchief , some matches and fourteen cents in change .
We took the matches -- they were book matches and once they'd been touched might retain fingerprints -- and the change .
We discussed the candle and decided the hypothetical other bum would have left it burning to light his way to the window and because he'd have no reason to blow it out .
The candle had been stuck on a tin lid so it wouldn't set fire to the crate when it guttered out .
A fire wouldn't have mattered except that it would cause Pops to be found sooner .
He might not be found for days , even weeks , otherwise .
We went once more over every point , then triple-checked .
Being picked up for questioning by a cop on the way out seemed to be the only possible remaining danger , and we weren't picked up by a cop .
In fact , nobody saw us , cop or citizen .
Winsett is a quiet street with no taverns and was completely deserted at that hour .
Which , if it matters , was one A.M. .
Less than three hours ago we'd decided , in Maxine Wells's pad on Cosmo , to commit a trial murder .
It had gone like clockwork .
Almost too smoothly , I found myself thinking , and then told myself that was ridiculous .
How safe is too safe ? ?
Thinking like that can get you into a padded pad .
An hour later we were back in my unpadded pad , killing what had been left of the second pint .
We decided to leave the third one intact for tomorrow .
Also our plans for me to commit Charlie's murder and for him to commit mine .
But we were really going to do it .
We shook hands on it .
We planned ahead only one step , a rendezvous for tomorrow when we could swap notes .
I'd tell him everything I'd learned about Seaton's habits and habitat , and he'd tell me the score on Radic .
We made the date for two o'clock in the afternoon at Maxine Wells's pad .
Charlie would get there early because he had the key .
From here on in , the less Charlie and I were seen together in public , or visited one another's rooms , the better .
I was dead tired and slept soundly , as far as I know dreamlessly .
We met at Maxine's and decided we were set to stay as long as it took , into or even through the evening , to talk things out .
Charlie had brought food and we'd decided on no drinks .
I'd brought along the virgin pint from last night , but we were going to kill that only when we were through talking .
I talked first , telling him everything I knew about Seaton and his house and domestic arrangements .
I drew diagrams and floor plans ; ;
he memorized them thoroughly and then we tore them into tiny pieces and flushed them down .
He gave me equivalent and even more detailed dope on Radic , including diagrams -- one of the apartment building Radic lived in and one of the apartment itself .
He'd been there several times , back when , while he and Radic had been friends , or at least not enemies .
It didn't take us as long as we'd thought it might ; ;
it was not quite six o'clock when we finished and Charlie said , `` Well , I guess that's it .
Shall we flip a coin to see which of us goes first ? ?
Or would you rather deal a hand of show-down poker or play a game of gin rummy , or what '' ? ?
`` Wait a minute , Charlie '' , I said .
`` One thing we haven't discussed , expense money .
We'll need some at least , if only bus fare to the scene of the crime .
And if you're as flat broke as I am , I think we'll have to take the added risk of knocking over a filling station or something before we split for one of us to set up an alibi while the other does his dirty work '' .
He sighed .
`` All right , I'll come clean .
I've got a little stashed for a rainy day , and I guess this is rainy enough .
A couple of hundred .
If you draw the short straw I'll lend you some bread , like fifty bucks , before I take off to visit my sister in Frisco .
Then , after I'm back , another fifty so you can put some mileage on yourself and have a solid alibi somewhere while I take care of your seat cover boy '' .
`` Solid '' , I said .
I took a deep breath , and the plunge .
`` In that case , let's not draw .
I'll go to bat first .
You'd have to wait till Seaton's back from Mexico City and also while I set it up with Doris to have her have an alibi for D-night .
So it wouldn't be for days or even a week before you could do anything .
But your friend Manny can go any time '' .
He grinned and clapped me on the shoulder .
`` I was hoping you'd say that , Willy .
But I wouldn't have suggested it .
Well -- in that case , I take off tomorrow morning for Frisco .
And , in case , I brought the money with me '' .
Now that he knew himself to be self he was free to grok ever closer to his brothers , merge without let .
Self's integrity was and is and ever had been .
Mike stopped to cherish all his brother selves , the many threes-fulfilled on Mars , corporate and discorporate , the precious few on Earth -- the unknown powers of three on Earth that would be his to merge with and cherish now that at last long waiting he grokked and cherished himself .
Mike remained in trance ; ;
there was much to grok , loose ends to puzzle over and fit into his growing -- all that he had seen and heard and been at the Archangel Foster Tabernacle ( not just cusp when he and Digby had come face to face alone ) why Bishop Senator Boone made him warily uneasy , how Miss Dawn Ardent tasted like a water brother when she was not , the smell of goodness he had incompletely grokked in the jumping up and down and wailing --
Jubal's conversations coming and going -- Jubal's words troubled him most ; ;
he studied them , compared them with what he had been taught as a nestling , struggling to bridge between languages , the one he thought with and the one he was learning to think in .
The word `` church '' which turned up over and over again among Jubal's words gave him knotty difficulty ; ;
there was no Martian concept to match it -- unless one took `` church '' and `` worship '' and `` God '' and `` congregation '' and many other words and equated them to the totality of the only world he had known during growing-waiting then forced the concept back into English in that phrase which had been rejected ( by each differently ) by Jubal , by Mahmoud , by Digby .
`` Thou art God '' .
He was closer to understanding it in English now , although it could never have the inevitability of the Martian concept it stood for .
In his mind he spoke simultaneously the English sentence and the Martian word and felt closer grokking .
Repeating it like a student telling himself that the jewel is in the lotus he sank into nirvana .
Before midnight he speeded his heart , resumed normal breathing , ran down his check list , uncurled and sat up .
He had been weary ; ;
now he felt light and gay and clear-headed , ready for the many actions he saw spreading out before him .
He felt a puppyish need for company as strong as his earlier necessity for quiet .
He stepped out into the hall , was delighted to encounter a water brother .
`` Hi '' ! !
`` Oh .
Hello , Mike .
My , you look chipper '' .
`` I feel fine ! !
Where is everybody '' ? ?
`` Asleep .
Ben and Stinky went home an hour ago and people started going to bed '' .
`` Oh '' .
Mike felt disappointed that Mahmoud had left ; ;
he wanted to explain his new grokking .
`` I ought to be asleep , too , but I felt like a snack .
Are you hungry '' ? ?
`` Sure , I'm hungry '' ! !
`` Come on , there's some cold chicken and we'll see what else '' .
They went downstairs , loaded a tray lavishly .
`` Let's take it outside .
It's plenty warm '' .
`` A fine idea '' , Mike agreed .
`` Warm enough to swim -- real Indian summer .
I'll switch on the floods '' .
`` Don't bother '' , Mike answered .
`` I'll carry the tray '' .
He could see in almost total darkness .
Jubal said that his night-sight probably came from the conditions in which he had grown up , and Mike grokked this was true but grokked that there was more to it ; ;
his foster parents had taught him to see .
As for the night being warm , he would have been comfortable naked on Mount Everest but his water brothers had little tolerance for changes in temperature and pressure ; ;
he was considerate of their weakness , once he learned of it .
But he was looking forward to snow -- seeing for himself that each tiny crystal of the water of life was a unique individual , as he had read -- walking barefoot , rolling in it .
In the meantime he was pleased with the warm night and the still more pleasing company of his water brother .
`` Okay , take the tray .
I'll switch on the underwater lights .
That'll be plenty to eat by '' .
`` Fine '' .
Mike liked having light up through the ripples ; ;
it was a goodness , beauty .
They picnicked by the pool , then lay back on the grass and looked at stars .
`` Mike , there's Mars .
It is Mars , isn't it ? ?
Or Antares '' ? ?
`` It is Mars '' .
`` Mike ? ?
What are they doing on Mars '' ? ?
He hesitated ; ;
the question was too wide for the sparse English language .
`` On the side toward the horizon -- the southern hemisphere -- it is spring ; ;
plants are being taught to grow '' .
`` ' Taught to grow ' '' ? ?
He hesitated .
`` Larry teaches plants to grow .
I have helped him .
But my people -- Martians , I mean ; ;
I now grok you are my people -- teach plants another way .
In the other hemisphere it is growing colder and nymphs , those who stayed alive through the summer , are being brought into nests for quickening and more growing '' .
He thought .
`` Of the humans we left at the equator , one has discorporated and the others are sad '' .
Yes , I heard it in the news '' .
Mike had not heard it ; ;
he had not known it until asked .
`` They should not be sad .
Mr. Booker T. W. Jones Food Technician First Class is not sad ; ;
the Old Ones have cherished him '' .
`` You knew him '' ? ?
`` Yes .
He had his own face , dark and beautiful .
But he was homesick '' .
`` Oh , dear ! !
Mike do you ever get homesick ? ?
For Mars '' ? ?
`` At first I was homesick '' , he answered .
`` I was lonely always '' .
He rolled toward her and took her in his arms .
`` But now I am not lonely .
I grok I shall never be lonely again '' .
`` Mike darling '' -- They kissed , and went on kissing .
Presently his water brother said breathlessly .
`` Oh , my ! !
That was almost worse than the first time '' .
`` You are all right , my brother '' ? ?
`` Yes .
Yes indeed .
Kiss me again '' .
A long time later , by cosmic clock , she said , `` Mike ? ?
Is that -- I mean , ' Do you know ' '' --
`` I know .
It is for growing closer .
Now we grow closer '' .
`` Well I've been ready a long time -- goodness , we all have , but never mind , dear ; ;
turn just a little .
I'll help '' .
As they merged , grokking together , Mike said softly and triumphantly : `` Thou art God '' .
Her answer was not in words .
Then , as their grokking made them ever closer and Mike felt himself almost ready to discorporate her voice called him back : `` Oh ! !
Oh ! !
Thou art God '' ! !
`` We grok God '' .
25 .
On Mars humans were building pressure domes for the male and female party that would arrive by next ship .
This went faster than scheduled as the Martians were helpful .
Part of the time saved was spent on a preliminary estimate for a long-distance plan to free bound oxygen in the sands of Mars to make the planet more friendly to future human generations .
The Old Ones neither helped nor hindered this plan ; ;
time was not yet .
Their meditations were approaching a violent cusp that would shape Martian art for many millennia .
On Earth elections continued and a very advanced poet published a limited edition of verse consisting entirely of punctuation marks and spaces ; ;
Time magazine reviewed it and suggested that the Federation Assembly Daily Record should be translated into the medium .
A colossal campaign opened to sell more sexual organs of plants and Mrs. Joseph ( `` Shadow of Greatness '' ) Douglas was quoted as saying : `` I would no more sit down without flowers on my table than without serviettes '' .
A Tibetan swami from Palermo , Sicily , announced in Beverly Hills a newly discovered , ancient yoga discipline for ripple breathing which increased both pranha and cosmic attraction between sexes .
His chelas were required to assume the matsyendra posture dressed in hand-woven diapers while he read aloud from Rig-Veda and an assistant guru examined their purses in another room -- nothing was stolen ; ;
the purpose was less immediate .
The President of the United States proclaimed the first Sunday in November as `` National Grandmothers' Day '' and urged America to say it with flowers .
A funeral parlor chain was indicted for price-cutting .
Fosterite bishops , after secret conclave , announced the Church's second Major Miracle : Supreme Bishop Digby had been translated bodily to Heaven and spot-promoted to Archangel , ranking with-but-after Archangel Foster .
The glorious news had been held up pending Heavenly confirmation of the elevation of a new Supreme Bishop , Huey Short -- a candidate accepted by the Boone faction after lots had been cast repeatedly .
L'Unita and Hoy published identical denunciations of Short's elevation , l'Osservatore Romano and the Christian Science Monitor ignored it , Times of India snickered at it , and the Manchester Guardian simply reported it -- the Fosterites in England were few but extremely militant .
Digby was not pleased with his promotion .
The Man from Mars had interrupted him with his work half finished -- and that stupid jackass Short was certain to louse it up .
Foster listened with angelic patience until Digby ran down , then said , `` Listen , junior , you're an angel now -- so forget it .
Eternity is no time for recriminations .
You too were a stupid jackass until you poisoned me .
Afterwards you did well enough .
Now that Short is Supreme Bishop he'll do all right , he can't help it .
Same as with the Popes .
Some of them were warts until they got promoted .
Check with one of them , go ahead -- there's no professional jealousy here '' .
Digby calmed down , but made one request .
Foster shook his halo .
`` You can't touch him .
You shouldn't have tried to .
Oh , you can submit a requisition for a miracle if you want to make a fool of yourself .
But , I'm telling you , it'll be turned down -- you don't understand the System yet .
The Martians have their own setup , different from ours , and as long as they need him , we can't touch him .
They run their show their way -- the Universe has variety , something for everybody -- a fact you field workers often miss '' .
`` You mean this punk can brush me aside and I've got to hold still for it '' ? ?
`` I held still for the same thing , didn't I ? ?
I'm helping you now , am I not ? ?
Now look , there's work to be done and lots of it .
The Boss wants performance , not gripes .
If you need a Day off to calm down , duck over to the Muslim Paradise and take it .
Otherwise , straighten your halo , square your wings , and dig in .
The sooner you act like an angel the quicker you'll feel angelic .
Get Happy , junior '' ! !
Digby heaved a deep ethereal sigh .
`` Okay , I'm Happy .
Where do I start '' ? ?
Jubal did not hear of Digby's disappearance when it was announced , and , when he did , while he had a fleeting suspicion , he dismissed it ; ;
if Mike had had a finger in it , he had gotten away with it -- and what happened to supreme bishops worried Jubal not at all as long as he wasn't bothered .
His household had gone through an upset .
Jubal deduced what had happened but did not know with whom -- and didn't want to inquire .
Mike was of legal age and presumed able to defend himself in the clinches .
Anyhow , it was high time the boy was salted .
Jubal couldn't reconstruct the crime from the way the girls behaved because patterns kept shifting -- ABC vs D , then BCD vs A or AB vs CD , or AD vs CB , through all ways that four women can gang up on each other .
This continued most of the week following that ill-starred trip to church , during which period Mike stayed in his room and usually in a trance so deep that Jubal would have pronounced him dead had he not seen it before .
Jubal would not have minded it if service had not gone to pieces .
The girls seemed to spend half their time tiptoeing in `` to see if Mike was all right '' and they were too preoccupied to cook , much less be secretaries .
Even rock-steady Anne -- Hell , Anne was the worst ! !
Absent-minded , subject to unexplained tears Jubal would have bet his life that if Anne were to witness the Second Coming , she would memorize date , time , personae , events , and barometric pressure without batting her calm blue eyes .
The expense and time involved are astronomical .
However , we sent a third vessel out , a much smaller and faster one than the first two .
We have learned much about interstellar drives since a hundred years ago ; ;
that is all I can tell you about them .
`` But the third ship came back several years ago and reported ''
`` That it had found a planet on which human beings could live and which was already inhabited by sentient beings '' ! !
Said Hal , forgetting in his enthusiasm that he had not been asked to speak .
Macneff stopped pacing to stare at Hal with his pale blue eyes .
`` How did you know '' ? ?
He said sharply .
`` Forgive me , Sandalphon '' , said Hal .
`` But it was inevitable ! !
Did not the Forerunner predict in his Time and the World Line that such a planet would be found ? ?
I believe it was on page 573 '' ! !
Macneff smiled and said , `` I am glad that your scriptural lessons have left such an impression '' .
How could they not ? ?
Thought Hal .
Besides , they were not the only impressions .
I still bear scars on my back where Pornsen , my gapt , whipped me because I had not learned my lessons well enough .
He was a good impresser , that Pornsen .
Was ? ?
Is ! !
As I grew older and was promoted , so was he , always where I was .
He was my gapt in the creche .
He was the dormitory gapt when I went to college and thought I was getting away from him .
He is now my block gapt .
He is the one responsible for my getting such low M. R.'s .
Swiftly , came the revulsion , the protest .
No , not he , for I , and I alone , am responsible for whatever happens to me .
If I get a low M. R. , I do so because I want it that way or my dark self does .
If I die , I die because I willed it so .
So , forgive me , Sigmen , for the contrary-to-reality thoughts ! !
`` Please pardon me again , Sandalphon '' , said Hal .
`` But did the expedition find any records of the Forerunner having been on this planet ? ?
Perhaps , even , though this is too much to wish , find the Forerunner himself '' ? ?
`` No '' , said Macneff .
`` Though that does not mean that there may not be such records there .
The expedition was under orders to make a swift survey of conditions and then to return to Earth .
I can't tell you now the distance in lightyears or what star this was , though you can see it with the naked eye at night in this hemisphere .
If you volunteer , you will be told where you're going after the ship leaves .
And it leaves very soon '' .
`` You need a linguist '' ? ?
Said Hal .
`` The ship is huge '' , said Macneff , `` but the number of military men and specialists we are taking limits the linguists to one .
We have considered several of your professionals because they were lamechians and above suspicion .
Unfortunately ''
Hal waited : Macneff paced some more , frowning .
Then , he said , `` Unfortunately , only one lamechian linguist exists , and he is too old for this expedition .
Therefore ''
`` A thousand pardons '' , said Hal .
`` But I have just thought of one thing .
I am married '' .
`` No problem at all '' , said Macneff .
`` There will be no women aboard the Gabriel .
And , if a man is married , he will automatically be given a divorce '' .
Hal gasped , and he said , `` A divorce '' ? ?
Macneff raised his hands apologetically and said , `` You are horrified , of course .
But , from our reading of the Western Talmud , we Urielites believe that the Forerunner , knowing this situation would arise , made reference to and provision for divorce .
It's inevitable in this case , for the couple will be separated for , at the least , forty years .
Naturally , he couched the provision in obscure language .
In his great and glorious wisdom , he knew that our enemies the Israelites must not be able to read therein what we planned '' .
`` I volunteer '' , said Hal .
`` Tell me more , Sandalphon '' .
Six months later , Hal Yarrow stood in the observation dome of the Gabriel and watched the ball of Earth dwindle above him .
It was night on this hemisphere , but the light blazed from the megalopolises of Australia , Japan , China , Southeast Asia , India , Siberia .
Hal , the linguist , saw the glittering discs and necklaces in terms of the languages spoken therein .
Australia , the Philippine Islands , Japan , and northern China were inhabited by those members of the Haijac Union that spoke American .
Southern China , all of southeast Asia , southern India and Ceylon , these states of the Malay Federation spoke Bazaar .
Siberia spoke Icelandic .
His mind turned the globe swiftly for him , and he visualized Africa , which used Swahili south of the Sahara Sea .
All around the Mediterranean Sea , Asia Minor , northern India , and Tibet , Hebrew was the native tongue .
In southern Europe , between the Israeli Republics and the Icelandic-speaking peoples of northern Europe , was a thin but long stretch of territory called March .
This was no man's land , disputed by the Haijac Union and the Israeli Republic , a potential source of war for the last two hundred years .
Neither nation would give up their claim on it , yet neither wished to make any move that might lead to a second Apocalyptic War .
So , for all practical purposes , it was an independent nation and by now had its own organized government ( unrecognized outside its own borders ) .
Its citizens spoke all of the world's surviving tongues , plus a new one called Lingo , a pidgin whose vocabulary was derived from the other six and whose syntax was so simple it could be contained on half a sheet of paper .
Hal saw in his mind the rest of Earth : Iceland , Greenland , the Caribbean Islands , and the eastern half of South America .
Here the peoples spoke the tongue of Iceland because that island had gotten the jump on the Hawaiian-Americans who were busy resettling North America and the western half of South America after the Apocalyptic War .
Then there was North America , where American was the native speech of all except the twenty descendants of French-Canadians living on the Hudson Bay Preserve .
Hal knew that when that side of Earth rotated into the night zone , Sigmen City would blaze out into space .
And , somewhere in that enormous light , was his apartment .
But Mary would soon no longer be living there , for she would be notified in a few days that her husband had died in an accident while on a flight to Tahiti .
She would weep in private , he was sure , for she loved him in her frigid way , though in public she would be dry-eyed .
Her friends and professional associates would sympathize with her , not because she had lost a beloved husband , but because she had been married to a man who thought unrealistically .
If Hal Yarrow had been killed in a crash , he must have wanted it that way .
There was no such thing as an `` accident '' .
Somehow , all the other passengers ( also supposed to have died in this web of elaborate frauds to cover up the disappearance of the personnel of the Gabriel ) had simultaneously `` agreed '' to die .
And , therefore , being in disgrace , they would not be cremated and their ashes flung to the winds in public ceremony .
No , the fish could eat their bodies for all the Sturch cared .
Hal felt sorry for Mary ; ;
he had a time keeping the tears from welling to his own eyes as he stood in the crowd in the observation dome .
Yet , he told himself , this was the best way .
He and Mary would no longer have to tear and rend at each other ; ;
their mutual torture would be over .
Mary was free to marry again , not knowing that the Sturch had secretly given her a divorce , thinking that death had dissolved her marriage .
She would have a year in which to make up her mind , to choose a mate from a list selected by her gapt .
Perhaps , the psychological barriers that had prevented her from conceiving Hal's child would no longer be present .
Perhaps .
Hal doubted if this happy event would occur .
Mary was as frozen below the navel as he .
No matter who the candidate for marriage selected by the gapt
The gapt .
Pornsen .
He would no longer have to see that fat face , hear that whining voice
`` Hal Yarrow '' ! !
Said the whining voice .
And , slowly , feeling himself icy yet burning , Hal turned .
There was the squat loose-jowled man , smiling lopsidedly up at him .
`` My beloved ward , my perennial gadfly '' , said the whining voice .
`` I had no idea that you , too , would be on this glorious voyage .
But I might have known ! !
We seem to be bound by love ; ;
Sigmen himself must have foreseen it .
Love to you , my ward '' .
`` Sigmen love you , too , my guardian '' , said Hal , choking .
`` How wonderful to see your cherished self .
I had thought we would never again speak to each other '' .
5
the Gabriel pointed towards her destination and , under one-gee acceleration , began to build up towards her ultimate velocity , 99.1 percent of the speed of light .
Meanwhile , all the personnel except those few needed to carry out the performance of the ship , went into the suspensor .
Here they would lie in suspended animation for many years .
Some time later , after a check had been made of all automatic equipment , the crew would join the others .
They would sleep while the Gabriel's drive would increase the acceleration to a point which the unfrozen bodies of the personnel could not have endured .
Upon reaching the desired speed , the automatic equipment would cut off the drive , and the silent but not empty vessel would hurl towards the star which was its journey's end .
Many years later , the photon-counting apparatus in the nose of the ship would determine that the star was close enough to actuate deceleration .
Again , a force too strong for unfrozen bodies to endure would be applied .
Then , after slowing the vessel considerably , the drive would adjust to a one-gee deceleration .
And the crew would be automatically brought out of their suspended animation .
These members would then unthaw the rest of the personnel .
And , in the half-year left before reaching their destination , the men would carry out whatever preparations were needed .
Hal Yarrow was among the last to go into the suspensor and among the first to come out .
He had to study the recordings of the language of the chief nation of Ozagen , Siddo .
And , from the first , he faced a difficult task .
The expedition that had discovered Ozagen had succeeded in correlating two thousand Siddo words with an equal number of American words .
The description of the Siddo syntax was very restricted .
And , as Hal found out , obviously mistaken in many cases .
This discovery caused Hal anxiety .
His duty was to write a school text and to teach the entire personnel of the Gabriel how to speak Ozagen .
Yet , if he used all of the little means at his disposal , he would be instructing his students wrongly .
Moreover , even getting this across would be difficult .
For one thing , the organs of speech of the Ozagen natives differed somewhat from Earthmen's ; ;
the sounds made by these organs were , therefore , dissimilar .
It was true that they could be approximated , but would the Ozagenians understand these approximations ? ?
Another obstacle was the grammatical construction of Siddo .
Consider the tense system .
Instead of inflecting a verb or using an unattached particle to indicate the past or future , Siddo used an entirely different word .
Thus , the masculine animate infinitive dabhumaksanigalu'ahai , meaning to live , was , in the perfect tense , ksu'u'peli'afo , and , in the future , mai'teipa .
The same use of an entirely different word applied for all the other tenses .
Plus the fact that Siddo not only had the normal ( to Earthmen ) three genders of masculine , feminine , and neuter , but the two extra of inanimate and spiritual .
Fortunately , gender was inflected , though the expression of it would be difficult for anybody not born in Siddo .
The system of indicating gender varied according to tense .
All the other parts of speech : nouns , pronouns , adjectives , adverbs , and conjunctions operated under the same system as the verbs .
This was not , for the Angel , just a matter of running through a logical or deductive chain , or deciding on some action from some already established premise .
No doubt the Angels could do that kind of thing as fast as any computer .
What Gabriel was being asked to do now , however , was to re-examine all his basic assumptions , make value-judgments on them , and give them new and different powers in his mind to govern his motives .
This is not wholly a reasoning process -- a computer cannot do it all -- and even in an Angel it takes time .
( Or , perhaps , especially in an Angel , whose assumptions had mostly been fixed millions of years ago .
)
Being reasonably sure of the reason for the long pause , however , did not make it seem any less long to Jack .
He had already become used to Hesperus' snapping back answers to questions almost before Jack could get them asked .
There was nothing he could do but wait .
The dice were cast .
At last Gabriel spoke .
`` We misjudged you '' , he said slowly .
`` We had concluded that no race as ephemeral as yours could have had time to develop a sense of justice .
Of course we have before us the example of the great races at the galactic center ; ;
individually they are nearly as mortal as you -- the difference does not seem very marked to us , where it exists .
But they have survived for long periods as races , whereas you are young .
We shall recommend to them that they shorten your trial period by half .
`` For now , it is clear that we were in the wrong .
You may reclaim your property , and the penalty on Hesperus is lifted .
Hesperus , you may speak '' .
`` I did not perceive this essential distinction either , First-Born '' , Hesperus said at once , `` I was only practicing a concept that Jack taught me , called a deal '' .
`` Nevertheless , you were its agent .
Jack , what is the nature of this concept '' ? ?
`` It's a kind of agreement in which each party gives something to the other '' , Jack said .
`` We regard it as fair only when each party feels that what he has received is as valuable , or more valuable , than what he has given '' .
His heart , he discovered , was pounding .
`` For instance , Hesperus agreed to help me find my property , and I agreed to take him to Earth .
Between individuals , this process is called bargaining .
When it is done between races or nations , it is called making a treaty .
And the major part of my mission to your nest is to make a treaty between your race and mine .
Recovering the property was much less important '' .
`` Strange '' , Gabriel said .
`` And apparently impossible .
Though it might be that we would have much to give you , you have nothing to give us '' .
`` Hesperus and Lucifer '' , Jack said , `` show that we do '' .
Another pause ; ;
but this one was not nearly as long .
`` Then it is a matter of pleasure ; ;
of curiosity ; ;
of a more alive time .
Yes , those could be commodities under this concept .
But you should understand , Jack , that Hesperus and Lucifer are not long out of the nursery .
Visiting the Earth would not be an offering of worth to those of us who are older '' .
This explained a great deal .
`` All the more reason , then '' , Jack said , `` why we must have a treaty .
We will gladly entertain your young and give them proper living quarters , in return for their help in running our fusion reactors .
But we must know if this is in accordance with your customs , and must have your agreement they will not misuse the power we put in their hands , to our hurt '' .
`` But this simply requires that they behave in accordance with the dictates of their own natures , and respect yours in turn .
To this we of course agree '' .
Jack felt a wave of complete elation , but in a second it had vanished without a trace .
What Gabriel was asking was that mankind forego all its parochial moral judgments , and contract to let the Angels serve on Earth as it is in Heaven regardless of the applicable Earth laws .
The Angels in turn would exercise similar restraints in respect for the natural preferences and natures of the Earthmen -- but they had no faintest notion of man's perverse habit of passing and enforcing laws which were contrary to his own preferences and violations of his nature .
The simple treaty principle that Gabriel was asking him to ratify , in short , was nothing less than total trust .
Nothing less would serve .
And it might be , considering the uncomfortable custom the Angels had of thinking of everything in terms of absolutes , that the proposal of anything less might well amount instead to something like a declaration of war .
Furthermore , even the highly trained law clerk who was a part of Jack's total make-up could not understand how the principle could ever be codified .
Almost the whole experience of mankind pointed toward suspicion , not trust , as the safest and sanest attitude toward all outsiders .
Yet there was some precedent for it .
The history of disarmament agreements , for instance , had been unreassuringly dismal ; ;
but the United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics nevertheless did eventually agree on an atomic bomb test ban , and a sort of provisional acceptance of each other's good intentions on this limited question .
Out of that agreement , though not by any easy road , eventually emerged the present world hegemony of the United Nations ; ;
suspicion between member states still existed , but it was of about the same low order of virulence as the twentieth-century rivalry between Arizona and California over water supplies .
Besides , agreements `` in principle '' , with the petty details to be thrashed out later , were commonplace in diplomatic history .
The trouble with them was that they almost never worked , and in fact an agreement `` in principle '' historically turned out to be a sure sign that neither party really wanted the quarrel settled .
Suppose that this one were to work ? ?
There was no question in Jack's mind of the good faith on one side , at least .
If mankind could be convinced of that
It was worth trying .
In fact , it had to be tried .
It would be at once the most tentative and most final treaty that Earth had ever signed .
Secretary Hart had taught Jack , at least partially , to be content with small beginnings in all diplomatic matters ; ;
but there was no small way to handle this one .
He turned back to the screens , the crucial , conclusive phrase on his lips .
But he was too late .
He had lost his audience .
For a moment he could make no sense at all of what he saw .
It seemed to be only a riot of color , light and meaningless activity .
Gradually , he realized that the pentagon of Angel elders had vanished , and that the ritual learning dance of the nursery had been broken up .
The Angels in the nursery were zigzagging wildly in all directions , seemingly at random .
`` Hesperus ! !
What's going on here ? ?
What's happened '' ? ?
`` Your brothers have been found .
They are on their way here '' .
`` Where ? ?
I don't see them .
The instruments don't show them '' .
`` You can't see them yet , Jack .
They'll be in range in a short while '' .
Jack scanned the skies , the boards , and the skies again .
Nothing .
No -- there was a tiny pip on the radar ; ;
and it was getting bigger rapidly .
If that was the skiff , it was making unprecedented speed .
Then the skiff hove into sight , just a dot of light at first against the roiling blackness and crimson streaks of the Coal Sack .
Through the telescope , Jack could see that both spacesuits were still attached to it .
The sail was still unfurled , though there were a good many holes in it , as Langer had predicted would be the case by now .
It was a startling , almost numenous sight ; ;
but even more awesome was the fact that it was trailing an enormous comet's-tail of Angels .
The skiff was not heading for the nursery , however .
It seemed unlikely that her crew , if either of them were alive , could even see the Ariadne , for they were passing her at a distance of nearly a light-year .
And there would be no chance of signaling them -- without the Nernst generator Jack could not send a call powerful enough to get through all the static , and by the time he could rebuild his fusion power the skiff would be gone .
Fuming , helpless , he watched them pass him .
The sail , ragged though it was , still had enough surface to catch some of the ocean of power being poured out from the nursery stars .
He would never have believed , without seeing it , that the bizarre little vessel could go so fast .
But where was it going ? ?
And why was it causing so much agitation among the Angels , and being followed by so many of them ? ?
There was only one possible answer , but Jack's horrified mind refused to believe it until he had fed the radar plots of the skiff's course into the computer .
The curve on the card the computer spat back at him couldn't be argued with , however .
The skiff was headed for the very center of the nebula -- toward that place which , Jack knew now , could hold nothing less important than the very core of the Angel's life and religion .
It was clear that Langer had at last found a way to attract the Angel's attention .
It was equally clear that as of this moment , the treaty was off .
Stern chase 10
Langer would have to be headed off , whether he knew where he was going or not .
Almost surely he did ; ;
after all , he had had the same set of facts as Jack had had to work from , and he was an almost frighteningly observant man .
But not having talked to the Angels , he had made a wrong turn in his reasoning somewhere along the line .
Had he decided , perhaps , that the center of the cloud was a center of government , instead of a center of life and faith '' ? ?
But it didn't matter now whether he meant to invade the Holy of Holies , or was simply headed in that direction by accident .
If it was intentional , it was now also unnecessary ; ;
and whether intentional or not , the outcome would be disastrous .
Jack crawled under the boards and restored the six feet of lead line he had excised from the Nernst generator switch .
When he was back on his feet again and about to reinstall the fuses , however , he hesitated .
He had to have fusion power to catch up with the skiff , and he had to have it fast .
But fusion power in the Coal Sack was what had triggered all the trouble in the first place -- and he already had an Angel aboard .
`` Hesperus '' ? ?
`` Receiving '' .
`` I'm going to turn my generator back on , as I promised to do .
But I can't take you to Earth yet .
First I've got to intercept my brothers before they get any deeper into trouble .
Will you obstruct this , or will you help ? ?
I know it's not part of the bargain , and your elders might not like it '' .
`` Nobody else can live in your hearth while I am in it '' , Hesperus said promptly .
`` As for my elders , they have already admitted that they were wrong .
If because of this incident they become angry with Earth , I will not be permitted to go there at all .
Therefore of course I will help '' .
With a short-lived sigh of relief , Jack plugged the fuses back in and threw the switch .
Without an instant's transition , the green light that meant full fusion power winked on the board .
Always before , it had taken five minutes to --
Of course .
Hesperus was in there .
From here on out , the Ariadne was going to be hotter than any space cruiser man had ever dreamed of .
But since he had failed to anticipate it , he lost the five minutes anyhow , in plotting an intercept orbit .
`` Hesperus , don't use this t-tau vector trick of yours , please .
Ryan hefted his bulk up and supported it on one elbow .
He rubbed his eyes sleepily with one huge paw .
`` Ekstrohm , Nogol , you guys okay '' ? ?
`` Nothing wrong with me that couldn't be cured '' , Nogol said .
He didn't say what would cure him ; ;
he had been explaining all during the trip what he needed to make him feel like himself .
His small black eyes darted inside the olive oval of his face .
`` Ekstrohm '' ? ?
Ryan insisted .
`` Okay '' .
`` Well , let's take a ground-level look at the country around here '' .
The facsiport rolled open on the landscape .
A range of bluffs hugged the horizon , the color of decaying moss .
Above them , the sky was the black of space , or the almost equal black of the winter sky above Minneapolis , seen against neon-lit snow .
That cold , empty sky was full of fire and light .
It seemed almost a magnification of the Galaxy itself , of the Milky Way , blown up by some master photographer .
This fiery swath was actually only a belt of minor planets , almost like the asteroid belt in the original Solar System .
These planets were much bigger , nearly all capable of holding an atmosphere .
But to the infuriation of scientists , for no known reason not all of them did .
This would be the fifth mapping expedition to the planetoids of Yancy-6 in three generations .
They lay months away from the nearest Earth star by jump drive , and no one knew what they were good for , although it was felt that they would probably be good for something if it could only be discovered -- much like the continent of Antarctica in ancient history .
`` How can a planet with so many neighbors be so lonely '' ? ?
Ryan asked .
He was the captain , so he could ask questions like that .
`` Some can be lonely in a crowd '' , Nogol said elaborately .
`` What will we need outside , Ryan '' ? ?
Ekstrohm asked .
`` No helmets '' , the captain answered .
`` We can breathe out there , all right .
It just won't be easy .
This old world lost all of its helium and trace gases long ago .
Nitrogen and oxygen are about it '' .
`` Ryan , look over there '' , Nogol said .
`` Animals .
Ringing the ship .
Think they're intelligent , maybe hostile '' ? ?
`` I think they're dead '' , Ekstrohm interjected quietly .
`` I get no readings from them at all .
Sonic , electronic , galvanic -- all blank .
According to these needles , they're stone dead '' .
`` Ekstrohm , you and I will have a look '' , Ryan said .
`` You hold down the fort , Nogol .
Take it easy '' .
`` Easy '' , Nogol confirmed .
`` I heard a story once about a rookie who got excited when the captain stepped outside and he couldn't get an encephalographic reading on him .
Me , I know the mind of an officer works in a strange and unfathomable manner '' .
`` I'm not worried about you mis-reading the dials , Nogol , just about a lug like you reading them at all .
Remember , when the little hand is straight up that's negative .
Positive results start when it goes towards the hand you use to make your mark '' .
`` But I'm ambidextrous '' .
Ryan told him what he could do then .
Ekstrohm smiled , and followed the captain through the airlock with only a glance at the lapel gauge on his coverall .
The strong negative field his suit set up would help to repel bacteria and insects .
Actually , the types of infection that could attack a warm-blooded mammal were not infinite , and over the course of the last few hundred years adequate defenses had been found for all basic categories .
He wasn't likely to come down with hot chills and puzzling striped fever .
They ignored the ladder down to the planet surface and , with only a glance at the seismological gauge to judge surface resistance , dropped to the ground .
It was day , but in the thin atmosphere contrasts were sharp between light and shadow .
They walked from midnight to noon , noon to midnight , and came to the beast sprawled on its side .
Ekstrohm nudged it with a boot .
`` Hey , this is pretty close to a wart-hog '' .
`` Uh-huh '' , Ryan admitted .
`` One of the best matches I've ever found .
Well , it has to happen .
Statistical average and all .
Still , it sometimes gives you a creepy feeling to find a rabbit or a snapping turtle on some strange world .
It makes you wonder if this exploration business isn't all some big joke , and somebody has been everywhere before you even started '' .
The surveyor looked sidewise at the captain .
The big man seldom gave out with such thoughts .
Ekstrohm cleared his throat .
`` What shall we do with this one ? ?
Dissect it '' ? ?
Ryan nudged it with his toe , following Ekstrohm's example .
`` I don't know , Stormy .
It sure as hell doesn't look like any dominant intelligent species to me .
No hands , for one thing .
Of course , that's not definite proof '' .
`` No , it isn't '' , Ekstrohm said .
`` I think we'd better let it lay until we get a clearer picture of the ecological setup around here .
In the meantime , we might be thinking on the problem all these dead beasts represent .
What killed them '' ? ?
`` It looks like we did , when we made blastdown '' .
`` But what about our landing was lethal to the creatures '' ? ?
`` Radiation '' ? ?
Ekstrohm suggested .
`` The planet is very low in radiation from mineral deposits , and the atmosphere seems to shield out most of the solar output .
Any little dose of radiation might knock off these critters '' .
`` I don't know about that .
Maybe it would work the other way .
Maybe because they have had virtually no radioactive exposure and don't have any R's stored up , they could take a lot without harm '' .
`` Then maybe it was the shockwave we set up .
Or maybe it's sheer xenophobia .
They curl up and die at the sight of something strange and alien -- like a spaceship '' .
`` Maybe '' , the captain admitted .
`` At this stage of the game anything could be possible .
But there's one possibility I particularly don't like '' .
`` And that is '' ? ?
`` Suppose it was not us that killed these aliens .
Suppose it is something right on the planet , native to it .
I just hope it doesn't work on Earthmen too .
These critters went real sudden '' .
Ekstrohm lay in his bunk and thought , the camp is quiet .
The Earthmen made camp outside the spaceship .
There was no reason to leave the comfortable quarters inside the ship , except that , faced with a possibility of sleeping on solid ground , they simply had to get out .
The camp was a cluster of aluminum bubbles , ringed with a spy web to alert the Earthmen to the approach of any being .
Each man had a bubble to himself , privacy after the long period of enforced intimacy on board the ship .
Ekstrohm lay in his bunk and listened to the sounds of the night on Yancey-6 138 .
There was a keening of wind , and a cracking of the frozen ground .
Insects there were on the world , but they were frozen solid during the night , only to revive and thaw in the morning sun .
The bunk he lay on was much more uncomfortable than the acceleration couches on board .
Yet he knew the others were sleeping more soundly , now that they had renewed their contact with the matter that had birthed them to send them riding high vacuum .
Ekstrohm was not asleep .
Now there could be an end to pretending .
He threw off the light blanket and swung his feet off the bunk , to the floor .
Ekstrohm stood up .
There was no longer any need to hide .
But what was there to do ? ?
What had changed for him ? ?
He no longer had to lie in his bunk all night , his eyes closed , pretending to sleep .
In privacy he could walk around , leave the light on , read .
It was small comfort for insomnia .
Ekstrohm never slept .
Some doctors had informed him he was mistaken about this .
Actually , they said , he did sleep , but so shortly and fitfully that he forgot .
Others admitted he was absolutely correct -- he never slept .
His body processes only slowed down enough for him to dispell fatigue poisons .
Occasionally he fell into a waking , gritty-eyed stupor ; ;
but he never slept .
Never at all .
Naturally , he couldn't let his shipmates know this .
Insomnia would ground him from the Exploration Service , on physiological if not psychological grounds .
He had to hide it .
Over the years , he had had buddies in space in whom he thought he could confide .
The buddies invariably took advantage of him .
Since he couldn't sleep anyway , he might as well stand their watches for them or write their reports .
Where the hell did he get off threatening to report any laxness on their part to the captain ? ?
A man with insomnia had better avoid bad dreams of that kind if he knew what was good for him .
Ekstrohm had to hide his secret .
In a camp , instead of shipboard , hiding the secret was easier .
But the secret itself was just as hard .
Ekstrohm picked up a lightweight no-back from the ship's library , a book by Bloch , the famous twentieth century expert on sex .
He scanned a few lines on the social repercussions of a celebrated nineteenth century sex murderer , but he couldn't seem to concentrate on the weighty , pontifical , ponderous style .
On impulse , he flipped up the heat control on his coverall and slid back the hatch of the bubble .
Ekstrohm walked through the alien glass and looked up at the unfamiliar constellations , smelling the frozen sterility of the thin air .
Behind him , his mates stirred without waking .
Ekstrohm was startled in the morning by a banging on the hatch of his bubble .
It took him a few seconds to put his thoughts in order , and then he got up from the bunk where he had been resting , sleeplessly .
The angry burnt-red face of Ryan greeted him .
`` Okay , Stormy , this isn't the place for fun and games .
What did you do with them '' ? ?
`` Do with what '' ? ?
`` The dead beasties .
All the dead animals laying around the ship '' .
`` What are you talking about , Ryan ? ?
What do you think I did with them '' ? ?
`` I don't know .
All I know is that they are gone '' .
`` Gone '' ? ?
Ekstrohm shouldered his way outside and scanned the veldt .
There was no ring of animal corpses .
Nothing .
Nothing but wispy grass whipping in the keen breeze .
`` I'll be damned '' , Ekstrohm said .
`` You are right now , buddy .
ExPe doesn't like anybody mucking up primary evidence '' .
`` Where do you get off , Ryan '' ? ?
Ekstrohm demanded .
`` Why pick me for your patsy ? ?
This has got to be some kind of local phenomenon .
Why accuse a shipmate of being behind this '' ? ?
`` Listen , Ekstrohm , I want to give you the benefit of every doubt .
But you aren't exactly the model of a surveyor , you know .
You've been riding on a pink ticket for six years , you know that '' .
`` No '' , Ekstrohm said , `` No , I didn't know that '' .
`` You've been hiding things from me and Nogol every jump we've made with you .
Now comes this ! !
It fits the pattern of secrecy and stealth you've been involved in '' .
`` What could I do with your lousy dead bodies ? ?
What would I want with them '' ? ?
`` All I know is that you were outside the bubbles last night , and you were the only sentient being who came in or out of our alarm web .
The tapes show that .
Now all the bodies are missing , like they got up and walked away '' .
It was not a new experience to Ekstrohm .
No .
Suspicion wasn't new to him at all .
`` Ryan , there are other explanations for the disappearance of the bodies .
Look for them , will you ? ?
I give you my word I'm not trying to pull some stupid kind of joke , or to deliberately foul up the expedition .
Take my word , can't you '' ? ?
Ryan shook his head .
`` I don't think I can .
There's still such a thing as mental illness .
You may not be responsible '' .
Ekstrohm scowled .
`` Don't try anything violent , Stormy .
I outweigh you fifty pounds and I'm fast for a big man '' .
`` I wasn't planning on jumping you .
Why do you have to jump me the first time something goes wrong ? ?
She lived and was given a name .
Helva .
For her first three vegetable months she waved her crabbed claws , kicked weakly with her clubbed feet and enjoyed the usual routine of the infant .
She was not alone for there were three other such children in the big city's special nursery .
Soon they all were removed to Central Laboratory School where their delicate transformation began .
One of the babies died in the initial transferral but of Helva's `` class '' , seventeen thrived in the metal shells .
Instead of kicking feet , Helva's neural responses started her wheels ; ;
instead of grabbing with hands , she manipulated mechanical extensions .
As she matured , more and more neural synapses would be adjusted to operate other mechanisms that went into the maintenance and running of a space ship .
For Helva was destined to be the `` brain '' half of a scout ship , partnered with a man or a woman , whichever she chose , as the mobile half .
She would be among the elite of her kind .
Her initial intelligence tests registered above normal and her adaptation index was unusually high .
As long as her development within her shell lived up to expectations , and there were no side-effects from the pituitary tinkering , Helva would live a rewarding , rich and unusual life , a far cry from what she would have faced as an ordinary , `` normal '' being .
However , no diagram of her brain patterns , no early I.Q. tests recorded certain essential facts about Helva that Central must eventually learn .
They would have to bide their official time and see , trusting that the massive doses of shell-psychology would suffice her , too , as the necessary bulwark against her unusual confinement and the pressures of her profession .
A ship run by a human brain could not run rogue or insane with the power and resources Central had to build into their scout ships .
Brain ships were , of course , long past the experimental stages .
Most babes survived the techniques of pituitary manipulation that kept their bodies small , eliminating the necessity of transfers from smaller to larger shells .
And very , very few were lost when the final connection was made to the control panels of ship or industrial combine .
Shell people resembled mature dwarfs in size whatever their natal deformities were , but the well-oriented brain would not have changed places with the most perfect body in the Universe .
So , for happy years , Helva scooted around in her shell with her classmates , playing such games as Stall , Power-Seek , studying her lessons in trajectory , propulsion techniques , computation , logistics , mental hygiene , basic alien psychology , philology , space history , law , traffic , codes : all the et ceteras that eventually became compounded into a reasoning , logical , informed citizen .
Not so obvious to her , but of more importance to her teachers , Helva ingested the precepts of her conditioning as easily as she absorbed her nutrient fluid .
She would one day be grateful to the patient drone of the sub-conscious-level instruction .
Helva's civilization was not without busy , do-good associations , exploring possible inhumanities to terrestrial as well as extraterrestrial citizens .
One such group got all incensed over shelled `` children '' when Helva was just turning fourteen .
When they were forced to , Central Worlds shrugged its shoulders , arranged a tour of the Laboratory Schools and set the tour off to a big start by showing the members case histories , complete with photographs .
Very few committees ever looked past the first few photos .
Most of their original objections about `` shells '' were overridden by the relief that these hideous ( to them ) bodies were mercifully concealed .
Helva's class was doing Fine Arts , a selective subject in her crowded program .
She had activated one of her microscopic tools which she would later use for minute repairs to various parts of her control panel .
Her subject was large -- a copy of the Last Supper -- and her canvas , small -- the head of a tiny screw .
She had tuned her sight to the proper degree .
As she worked she absentmindedly crooned , producing a curious sound .
Shell people used their own vocal cords and diaphragms but sound issued through microphones rather than mouths .
Helva's hum then had a curious vibrancy , a warm , dulcet quality even in its aimless chromatic wanderings .
`` Why , what a lovely voice you have '' , said one of the female visitors .
Helva `` looked '' up and caught a fascinating panorama of regular , dirty craters on a flaky pink surface .
Her hum became a gurgle of surprise .
She instinctively regulated her `` sight '' until the skin lost its cratered look and the pores assumed normal proportions .
`` Yes , we have quite a few years of voice training , madam '' , remarked Helva calmly .
`` Vocal peculiarities often become excessively irritating during prolonged intra-stellar distances and must be eliminated .
I enjoyed my lessons '' .
Although this was the first time that Helva had seen unshelled people , she took this experience calmly .
Any other reaction would have been reported instantly .
`` I meant that you have a nice singing voice dear '' , the lady amended .
`` Thank you .
Would you like to see my work '' ? ?
Helva asked , politely .
She instinctively sheered away from personal discussions but she filed the comment away for further meditation .
`` Work '' ? ?
Asked the lady .
`` I am currently reproducing the Last Supper on the head of a screw '' .
`` No , I say '' , the lady twittered .
Helva turned her vision back to magnification and surveyed her copy critically .
`` Of course , some of my color values do not match the old Master's and the perspective is faulty but I believe it to be a fair copy '' .
The lady's eyes , unmagnified , bugged out .
`` Oh , I forget '' , and Helva's voice was really contrite .
If she could have blushed , she would have .
`` You people don't have adjustable vision '' .
The monitor of this discourse grinned with pride and amusement as Helva's tone indicated pity for the unfortunate .
`` Here , this will help '' , suggested Helva , substituting a magnifying device in one extension and holding it over the picture .
In a kind of shock , the ladies and gentlemen of the committee bent to observe the incredibly copied and brilliantly executed Last Supper on the head of a screw .
`` Well '' , remarked one gentleman who had been forced to accompany his wife , `` the good Lord can eat where angels fear to tread '' .
`` Are you referring , sir '' , asked Helva politely , `` to the Dark Age discussions of the number of angels who could stand on the head of a pin '' ? ?
`` I had that in mind '' .
`` If you substitute ' atom ' for ' angel ' , the problem is not insoluble , given the metallic content of the pin in question '' .
`` Which you are programed to compute '' ? ?
`` Of course '' .
`` Did they remember to program a sense of humor , as well , young lady '' ? ?
`` We are directed to develop a sense of proportion , sir , which contributes the same effect '' .
The good man chortled appreciatively and decided the trip was worth his time .
If the investigation committee spent months digesting the thoughtful food served them at the Laboratory School , they left Helva with a morsel as well .
`` Singing '' as applicable to herself required research .
She had , of course , been exposed to and enjoyed a music appreciation course which had included the better known classical works such as `` Tristan und Isolde '' , `` Candide '' , `` Oklahoma '' , `` Nozze de Figaro '' , the atomic age singers , Eileen Farrell , Elvis Presley and Geraldine Todd , as well as the curious rhythmic progressions of the Venusians , Capellan visual chromatics and the sonic concerti of the Altairians .
But `` singing '' for any shell person posed considerable technical difficulties to be overcome .
Shell people were schooled to examine every aspect of a problem or situation before making a prognosis .
Balanced properly between optimism and practicality , the nondefeatist attitude of the shell people led them to extricate themselves , their ships and personnel , from bizarre situations .
Therefore to Helva , the problem that she couldn't open her mouth to sing , among other restrictions , did not bother her .
She would work out a method , by-passing her limitations , whereby she could sing .
She approached the problem by investigating the methods of sound reproduction through the centuries , human and instrumental .
Her own sound production equipment was essentially more instrumental than vocal .
Breath control and the proper enunciation of vowel sounds within the oral cavity appeared to require the most development and practice .
Shell people did not , strictly speaking , breathe .
For their purposes , oxygen and other gases were not drawn from the surrounding atmosphere through the medium of lungs but sustained artificially by solution in their shells .
After experimentation , Helva discovered that she could manipulate her diaphragmic unit to sustain tone .
By relaxing the throat muscles and expanding the oral cavity well into the frontal sinuses , she could direct the vowel sounds into the most felicitous position for proper reproduction through her throat microphone .
She compared the results with tape recordings of modern singers and was not unpleased although her own tapes had a peculiar quality about them , not at all unharmonious , merely unique .
Acquiring a repertoire from the Laboratory library was no problem to one trained to perfect recall .
She found herself able to sing any role and any song which struck her fancy .
It would not have occurred to her that it was curious for a female to sing bass , baritone , tenor , alto , mezzo , soprano and coloratura as she pleased .
It was , to Helva , only a matter of the correct reproduction and diaphragmic control required by the music attempted .
If the authorities remarked on her curious avocation , they did so among themselves .
Shell people were encouraged to develop a hobby so long as they maintained proficiency in their technical work .
On the anniversary of her sixteenth year in her shell , Helva was unconditionally graduated and installed in her ship , the Aj .
Her permanent titanium shell was recessed behind an even more indestructible barrier in the central shaft of the scout ship .
The neural , audio , visual and sensory connections were made and sealed .
Her extendibles were diverted , connected or augmented and the final , delicate-beyond-description brain taps were completed while Helva remained anesthetically unaware of the proceedings .
When she awoke , she was the ship .
Her brain and intelligence controlled every function from navigation to such loading as a scout ship of her class needed .
She could take care of herself and her ambulatory half , in any situation already recorded in the annals of Central Worlds and any situation its most fertile minds could imagine .
Her first actual flight , for she and her kind had made mock flights on dummy panels since she was eight , showed her complete mastery of the techniques of her profession .
She was ready for her great adventures and the arrival of her mobile partner .
There were nine qualified scouts sitting around collecting base pay the day Helva was commissioned .
There were several missions which demanded instant attention but Helva had been of interest to several department heads in Central for some time and each man was determined to have her assigned to his section .
Consequently no one had remembered to introduce Helva to the prospective partners .
The ship always chose its own partner .
Had there been another `` brain '' ship at the Base at the moment , Helva would have been guided to make the first move .
As it was , while Central wrangled among itself , Robert Tanner sneaked out of the pilots' barracks , out to the field and over to Helva's slim metal hull .
`` Hello , anyone at home '' ? ?
Tanner wisecracked .
`` Of course '' , replied Helva logically , activating her outside scanners .
`` Are you my partner '' ? ?
She asked hopefully , as she recognized the Scout Service uniform .
`` All you have to do is ask '' , he retorted hopefully .
`` No one has come .
I thought perhaps there were no partners available and I've had no directives from Central '' .
Even to herself Helva sounded a little self-pitying but the truth was she was lonely , sitting on the darkened field .
Always she had had the company of other shells and more recently , technicians by the score .
The sudden solitude had lost its momentary charm and become oppressive .
`` No directives from Central is scarcely a cause for regret , but there happen to be eight other guys biting their fingernails to the quick just waiting for an invitation to board you , you beautiful thing '' .
It would have killed you in the cabin .
Do you have anything for me '' ? ?
Mercer stammered , not knowing what B'dikkat meant , and the two-nosed man answered for him , `` I think he has a nice baby head , but it isn't big enough for you to take yet '' .
Mercer never noticed the needle touch his arm .
B'dikkat had turned to the next knot of people when the super-condamine hit Mercer .
He tried to run after B'dikkat , to hug the lead spacesuit , to tell B'dikkat that he loved him .
He stumbled and fell , but it did not hurt .
The many-bodied girl lay near him .
Mercer spoke to her .
`` Isn't it wonderful ? ?
You're beautiful , beautiful , beautiful .
I'm so happy to be here '' .
The woman covered with growing hands came and sat beside them .
She radiated warmth and good fellowship .
Mercer thought that she looked very distinguished and charming .
He struggled out of his clothes .
It was foolish and snobbish to wear clothing when none of these nice people did .
The two women babbled and crooned at him .
With one corner of his mind he knew that they were saying nothing , just expressing the euphoria of a drug so powerful that the known universe had forbidden it .
With most of his mind he was happy .
He wondered how anyone could have the good luck to visit a planet as nice as this .
He tried to tell the Lady Da , but the words weren't quite straight .
A painful stab hit him in the abdomen .
The drug went after the pain and swallowed it .
It was like the cap in the hospital , only a thousand times better .
The pain was gone , though it had been crippling the first time .
He forced himself to be deliberate .
He rammed his mind into focus and said to the two ladies who lay pinkly nude beside him in the desert , `` That was a good bite .
Maybe I will grow another head .
That would make B'dikkat happy '' ! !
The Lady Da forced the foremost of her bodies in an upright position .
Said she , `` I'm strong , too .
I can talk .
Remember , man , remember .
People never live forever .
We can die , too , we can die like real people .
I do so believe in death '' ! !
Mercer smiled at her through his happiness .
`` Of course you can .
But isn't this nice ''
With this he felt his lips thicken and his mind go slack .
He was wide awake , but he did not feel like doing anything .
In that beautiful place , among all those companionable and attractive people , he sat and smiled .
B'dikkat was sterilizing his knives .
Mercer wondered how long the super-condamine had lasted him .
He endured the ministrations of the dromozoa without screams or movement .
The agonies of nerves and itching of skin were phenomena which happened somewhere near him , but meant nothing .
He watched his own body with remote , casual interest .
The Lady Da and the hand-covered woman stayed near him .
After a long time the half-man dragged himself over to the group with his powerful arms .
Having arrived he blinked sleepily and friendlily at them , and lapsed back into the restful stupor from which he had emerged .
Mercer saw the sun rise on occasion , closed his eyes briefly , and opened them to see stars shining .
Time had no meaning .
The dromozoa fed him in their mysterious way ; ;
the drug canceled out his needs for cycles of the body .
At last he noticed a return of the inwardness of pain .
The pains themselves had not changed ; ;
he had .
He knew all the events which could take place on Shayol .
He remembered them well from his happy period .
Formerly he had noticed them -- now he felt them .
He tried to ask the Lady Da how long they had had the drug , and how much longer they would have to wait before they had it again .
She smiled at him with benign , remote happiness ; ;
apparently her many torsos , stretched out along the ground , had a greater capacity for retaining the drug than did his body .
She meant him well , but was in no condition for articulate speech .
The half-man lay on the ground , arteries pulsating prettily behind the half-transparent film which protected his abdominal cavity .
Mercer squeezed the man's shoulder .
The half-man woke , recognized Mercer and gave him a healthily sleepy grin .
`` ' A good morrow to you , my boy .
That's out of a play .
Did you ever see a play '' ? ?
`` You mean a game with cards '' ? ?
`` No '' , said the half-man , `` a sort of eye-machine with real people doing the figures '' .
`` I never saw that '' , said Mercer , `` but I '' --
`` But you want to ask me when B'dikkat is going to come back with the needle '' .
`` Yes '' , said Mercer , a little ashamed of his obviousness .
`` Soon '' , said the half-man .
That's why I think of plays .
We all know what is going to happen .
We all know when it is going to happen .
We all know what the dummies will do '' -- he gestured at the hummocks in which the decorticated men were cradled -- `` and we all know what the new people will ask .
But we never know how long a scene is going to take '' .
`` What's a ' scene ' '' ? ?
Asked Mercer .
`` Is that the name for the needle '' ? ?
The half-man laughed with something close to real humor .
`` No , no , no .
You've got the lovelies on the brain .
A scene is just a part of a play .
I mean we know the order in which things happen , but we have no clocks and nobody cares enough to count days or to make calendars and there's not much climate here , so none of us know how long anything takes .
The pain seems short and the pleasure seems long .
I'm inclined to think that they are about two Earth-weeks each '' .
Mercer did not know what an `` Earth-week '' was , since he had not been a well-read man before his conviction , but he got nothing more from the half-man at that time .
The half-man received a dromozootic implant , turned red in the face , shouted senselessly at Mercer , `` Take it out , you fool ! !
Take it out of me '' ! !
When Mercer looked on helplessly , the half-man twisted over on his side , his pink dusty back turned to Mercer , and wept hoarsely and quietly to himself .
Mercer himself could not tell how long it was before B'dikkat came back .
It might have been several days .
It might have been several months .
Once again B'dikkat moved among them like a father ; ;
once again they clustered like children .
This time B'dikkat smiled pleasantly at the little head which had grown out of Mercer's thigh -- a sleeping child's head , covered with light hair on top and with dainty eyebrows over the resting eyes .
Mercer got the blissful needle .
When B'dikkat cut the head from Mercer's thigh , he felt the knife grinding against the cartilage which held the head to his own body .
He saw the child-face grimace as the head was cut ; ;
he felt the far , cool flash of unimportant pain , as B'dikkat dabbed the wound with a corrosive antiseptic which stopped all bleeding immediately .
The next time it was two legs growing from his chest .
Then there had been another head beside his own .
Or was that after the torso and legs , waist to toe-tips , of the little girl which had grown from his side ? ?
He forgot the order .
He did not count time .
Lady Da smiled at him often , but there was no love in this place .
She had lost the extra torsos .
In between teratologies , she was a pretty and shapely woman ; ;
but the nicest thing about their relationship was her whisper to him , repeated some thousands of time , repeated with smiles and hope , `` People never live forever '' .
She found this immensely comforting , even though Mercer did not make much sense out of it .
Thus events occurred , and victims changed in appearance , and new ones arrived .
Sometimes B'dikkat took the new ones , resting in the everlasting sleep of their burned-out brains , in a ground-truck to be added to other herds .
The bodies in the truck threshed and bawled without human speech when the dromozoa struck them .
Finally , Mercer did manage to follow B'dikkat to the door of the cabin .
He had to fight the bliss of super-condamine to do it .
Only the memory of previous hurt , bewilderment and perplexity made him sure that if he did not ask B'dikkat when he , Mercer , was happy , the answer would no longer be available when he needed it .
Fighting pleasure itself , he begged B'dikkat to check the records and to tell him how long he had been there .
B'dikkat grudgingly agreed , but he did not come out of the doorway .
He spoke through the public address box built into the cabin , and his gigantic voice roared out over the empty plain , so that the pink herd of talking people stirred gently in their happiness and wondered what their friend B'dikkat might be wanting to tell them .
When he said it , they thought it exceedingly profound , though none of them understood it , since it was simply the amount of time that Mercer had been on Shayol :
`` Standard years -- eighty-four years , seven months , three days , two hours , eleven and one half minutes .
Good luck , fellow '' .
Mercer turned away .
The secret little corner of his mind , which stayed sane through happiness and pain , made him wonder about B'dikkat .
What persuaded the cow-man to remain on Shayol ? ?
What kept him happy without super-condamine ? ?
Was B'dikkat a crazy slave to his own duty or was he a man who had hopes of going back to his own planet some day , surrounded by a family of little cow-people resembling himself ? ?
Mercer , despite his happiness , wept a little at the strange fate of B'dikkat .
His own fate he accepted .
He remembered the last time he had eaten -- actual eggs from an actual pan .
The dromozoa kept him alive , but he did not know how they did it .
He staggered back to the group .
The Lady Da , naked in the dusty plain , waved a hospitable hand and showed that there was a place for him to sit beside her .
There were unclaimed square miles of seating space around them , but he appreciated the kindliness of her gesture none the less .
4 ,
The years , if they were years , went by .
The land of Shayol did not change .
Sometimes the bubbling sound of geysers came faintly across the plain to the herd of men ; ;
those who could talk declared it to be the breathing of Captain Alvarez .
There was night and day , but no setting of crops , no change of season , no generations of men .
Time stood still for these people , and their load of pleasure was so commingled with the shocks and pains of the dromozoa that the words of the Lady Da took on very remote meaning .
`` People never live forever '' .
Her statement was a hope , not a truth in which they could believe .
They did not have the wit to follow the stars in their courses , to exchange names with each other , to harvest the experience of each for the wisdom of all .
There was no dream of escape for these people .
Though they saw the old-style chemical rockets lift up from the field beyond B'dikkat's cabin , they did not make plans to hide among the frozen crop of transmuted flesh .
Far long ago , some other prisoner than one of these had tried to write a letter .
His handwriting was on a rock .
Mercer read it , and so had a few of the others , but they could not tell which man had done it .
Nor did they care .
The letter , scraped on stone , had been a message home .
They could still read the opening : `` Once , I was like you , stepping out of my window at the end of day , and letting the winds blow me gently toward the place I lived in .
Once , like you , I had one head , two hands , ten fingers on my hands .
The front part of my head was called a face , and I could talk with it .
Now I can only write , and that only when I get out of pain .
Dan Morgan told himself he would forget Ann Turner .
He was well rid of her .
He certainly didn't want a wife who was fickle as Ann .
If he had married her , he'd have been asking for trouble .
But all of this was rationalization .
Sometimes he woke up in the middle of the night thinking of Ann , and then could not get back to sleep .
His plans and dreams had revolved around her so much and for so long that now he felt as if he had nothing .
The easiest thing would be to sell out to Al Budd and leave the country , but there was a stubborn streak in him that wouldn't allow it .
The best antidote for the bitterness and disappointment that poisoned him was hard work .
He found that if he was tired enough at night , he went to sleep simply because he was too exhausted to stay awake .
Each day he found himself thinking less often of Ann ; ;
each day the hurt was a little duller , a little less poignant .
He had plenty of work to do .
Because the summer was unusually dry and hot , the spring produced a smaller stream than in ordinary years .
The grass in the meadows came fast , now that the warm weather was here .
He could not afford to lose a drop of the precious water , so he spent most of his waking hours along the ditches in his meadows .
He had no idea how much time Budd would give him .
In any case , he had no intention of being caught asleep , so he carried his revolver in its holster on his hip and he took his Winchester with him and leaned it against the fence .
He stopped every few minutes and leaned on his shovel as he studied the horizon , but nothing happened , each day dragging out with monotonous calm .
When , in late afternoon on the last day in June , he saw two people top the ridge to the south and walk toward the house , he quit work immediately and strode to his rifle .
It could be some kind of trick Budd had thought up .
No one walked in this country , least of all Ed Dow or Dutch Renfro or any of the rest of the Bar B crew .
Morgan watched the two figures for a time , puzzled .
When they were closer and he saw that one was a woman , he was more puzzled than ever .
He cleaned his shovel , left it against the fence , picked up his Winchester , and started downstream .
His visitors had crawled through the south fence and were crossing the meadow , angling toward the house .
Now he saw that both the man and woman were moving slowly and irregularly , staggering , as if they found it a struggle to remain on their feet .
Reaching the house ahead of them , he waited with his Winchester in his hands .
They crawled through the north fence and came on toward him , and now he saw that both were young , not more than nineteen or twenty .
They were dirty , their clothes were torn , and the girl was so exhausted that she fell when she was still twenty feet from the front door .
She lay there , making no effort to get back on her feet .
The boy came on to the porch and sat down , his gaze on Morgan as if half expecting him to shoot and not really caring .
Morgan hesitated , thinking that if this was a trick , it was a good one .
He didn't think it was possible for this couple to be pretending .
The boy licked his dry lips .
He asked , `` Could we have a drink '' ? ?
Morgan jerked his head toward the front door .
`` In the kitchen '' , he said .
Leaning his Winchester against the front of the house , he walked to the girl .
`` Get up .
There's water in the house '' .
She didn't move or say anything .
Her eyes were glazed as if she didn't hear or even see him .
She had reached a point at which she didn't even care how she looked .
Her face was very thin , and burned by the sun until much of the skin was dead and peeling , the new skin under it red and angry .
Her blond hair was frowzy , her dress torn in several places , and her shoes were so completely worn out that they were practically no protection .
It must have hurt her even to walk , for the sole was completely off her left foot and Morgan saw that it was bruised and bleeding .
He picked her up , sliding one hand under her shoulders , the other under her knees , and carried her into the house .
She was amazingly light , and so relaxed in his arms that he wasn't even sure she was conscious .
Any lingering suspicion that this was a trick Al Budd had thought up was dispelled .
No girl would go this far to fool a man so she could kill him .
Besides , she had a sweet face that attracted him .
He put her down on the couch , and going into the kitchen , saw that the boy had dropped into a chair beside the table .
They looked a good deal alike , Morgan thought .
Both had blonde hair and blue eyes , and there was even a faint similarity of features .
Morgan filled the dipper from the water bucket on the shelf , went back into the front room , lifted the girl's head , and held the edge of the dipper to her mouth .
She drank greedily , and murmured , `` Thank you '' , as he lowered her head .
He stood looking down at her for a moment , wondering what could have reduced her to this condition .
He had seen a few nester wagons go through the country , the families almost starving to death , but he had never seen any of them on foot and as bad off as these two .
The girl dropped off to sleep .
Morgan returned to the kitchen , built a fire , and carried in several buckets of water from the spring which he poured into the copper boiler that he had placed on the stove .
He brought his Winchester in from the front of the house , then faced the boy .
`` Who are you and what happened to you '' ? ?
He asked .
`` I'm Billy Jones '' , the boy answered .
`` That's my wife Sharon .
We ran out of money and we haven't eaten for two days '' .
`` What are you doing here '' ? ?
`` Are we in Wyoming '' ? ?
Morgan nodded .
`` About five miles north of the line '' .
Jones sighed as if relieved .
`` We've been looking for work , but all the ranchers have turned us down '' .
`` You mean you dragged your wife all over hell's half-acre looking for work '' ? ?
Morgan demanded .
`` The town of Buckhorn's only about six miles from here .
Why didn't you go there '' ? ?
`` We didn't want town work '' , Jones said .
`` This is a mighty empty country '' , Morgan said .
`` There's only one more ranch three miles north of here .
You'd have starved to death if you'd missed both places '' .
`` Then we're lucky we got here .
Could you give us a job , Mr. ''
`` Morgan .
Dan Morgan '' .
He was silent a moment , thinking he could use a man this time of year , and if the girl could cook , it would give him more time in the meadows , but he knew nothing about the couple .
They might kill him in his sleep , thinking there was money in the house .
He dismissed the possibility at once .
The girl's thin face haunted him .
It wasn't the face of a killer .
He wasn't so sure about the boy .
He hadn't shaved for several weeks , his sparse beard giving his face a pathetic , woebegone expression .
There was more to this than Jones had told him .
They were running from something .
He'd be an idiot to let them stay he thought , but he couldn't send them on , either .
`` I could use some help '' , Morgan said finally , `` but I can't afford to pay you anything .
I guess you'd better go on in the morning '' .
`` We'll work for our keep '' , the boy said eagerly .
`` I've been mucking in a mine in the San Juan , but I used to work on a ranch .
Sharon , she's cooked in a restaurant .
We'll work hard , Mr. Morgan '' .
`` I'll see '' , Morgan said .
`` Right now you need a meal and a bath .
Your wife's in terrible shape '' .
`` I know '' , Jones said dejectedly .
Morgan filled the fire box with wood again , then started supper and set the table .
When the meal was ready , he told Jones to wash up , and going into the front room , woke the girl .
He said , `` I've got some supper ready '' .
She rubbed her eyes and stretched , then sat up , her hands going to her hair .
`` I'm a mess '' , she said , and suddenly she was alarmed .
`` Who are you ? ?
How did we get here '' ? ?
`` I'm Dan Morgan .
This is the Rafter Aj .
You fell down in front of the house , and I carried you in .
I gave you a drink and then you went to sleep '' .
`` Oh '' .
She stared at him , her eyes wide as she thought about what he had said ; ;
then she murmured : `` You're very kind , Mr. Morgan .
Do you take in all the strays who come by '' ? ?
`` I don't have many strays coming to my front door '' , he said .
`` Think you can walk to the table '' ? ?
`` Of course '' .
She got to her feet , staggered , and almost fell .
He caught her by an arm and helped her into the kitchen .
She sat down at the table , shaking her head .
`` I'm sorry , Mr. Morgan .
I'm usually a very strong woman , but I'm awfully tired '' .
`` And hungry '' , he said .
`` Start in .
It's not much of a meal , but it's what I eat '' .
`` Not much of a meal '' ? ?
The girl cried .
`` Mr. Morgan , it's the best-looking food I ever saw '' .
He told himself he had never seen two people eat so much .
When they were finally satisfied , Jones said , `` I think he's going to give us work '' .
The grateful way she looked at Morgan made him ashamed of himself .
When he saw the expression in her eyes , he knew he couldn't send them on .
She said , `` I guess the Lord looks out for fools , drunkards , and innocents '' .
Morgan laughed .
`` Which are you '' ? ?
`` We're not drunkards '' , she said .
`` That's all I'm sure of '' .
She helped him with the dishes , then he brought more water in from the spring before it got dark .
He carried the tub from the back of the house where it hung from a nail in the wall .
He said : `` You'll feel a lot better after you have a bath .
Your feet are in bad shape , Mrs. Jones .
You'll have to go to town to see the doc '' .
`` No , she'll be all right '' , Jones said quickly .
`` I mean , we don't have any way to get there and we can't expect you to quit work just to take us to town '' .
`` We'll see '' , Morgan said .
`` Could you find me a needle and thread '' ? ?
The girl asked .
`` My dress needs some work on it '' .
He nodded and , going into the bedroom , brought a needle , thread , and scissors .
He said : `` I'm going to bed '' .
He nodded at the door in front of him .
`` That's my spare bedroom .
The bed isn't made , but you'll find plenty of blankets there '' .
`` You're awfully kind '' , the girl said .
`` We'll pay you back if you'll let us .
Some way '' .
`` It's all right '' , he said .
`` I get up early .
You'd better sleep '' .
Jones followed him into the front room , closing the door behind him .
He said : `` If it's all right with you , Mr. Morgan , I'll sleep out here on the couch .
We haven't slept together since we started .
I just can't take any chances on getting her pregnant , and if we were sleeping together ''
He stopped , embarrassed , and Morgan said , `` I understand that , but I don't savvy why you'd go off and leave your jobs in the first place '' .
`` We got fired '' , Jones said .
`` We had to do something '' .
They were a pair of lost , whipped kids , Morgan thought as he went to bed .
Gavin paused wearily .
`` You can't stay here with me .
It's late and you said they'd be here by dawn '' .
`` You can't make me go '' .
Gavin sank down again into his chair and began to rock .
He was thinking of Rittenhouse and how he had left him there , to rock to death on the porch of the Splendide .
It was the only thing in his life for which he felt guilt .
Beneath his black shirt his frail shoulders shook and croaks of pain broke from his throat , the stored pain shattering free in slow gasps , terrible to see .
Clayton tried to call back the face of the man he had known .
Against that other man he could rally his anger ; ;
against this bent man in the chair he was powerless .
Gavin's lips moved so that Clayton had to stoop to catch the words .
`` Do you remember Big Charlie '' ? ?
He whispered .
`` He stuck with me all these years .
Just a half-breed 'pache , never said much , never meant anythin to me , but he stuck with me .
He got into a fight with Tom English , your brother's son .
It was a fair fight , the boy provoked it -- Big Charlie told me so .
I believed him .
They killed Big Charlie , dumped his body in my rose garden two nights ago .
My men , they all left me .
Just cleared out .
I didn't understand why , Clay .
They just all cleared out .
I treated them fair ''
He wiped his lips with a sleeve , then stared at Clayton in a childish kind of wonder .
`` Do you mean '' -- he asked almost shyly -- `` you want me to go with you , wherever you're goin '' ? ?
`` Yes '' .
`` You don't hate me any more '' ? ?
Clayton choked , shook his head , murmuring , `` No '' .
`` Come here '' .
The old man beckoned with one finger and Clayton went forward to him .
Gavin slipped his arms around his chest and hugged him fiercely .
`` All my life '' , he said , `` I tried .
I tried .
I saw you driftin away -- but I tried .
And you wanted no part of me when I had so much to give .
Now there's nothin left of me .
Laurel is gone , my men are gone , Ed is dead -- and you come to me , to help me .
Oh ! !
God in Heaven , I can't refuse you now .
That would mock me too much ! !
Can't let you go way from me again '' He closed his eyes , ashamed of his tears .
`` I'll go , Clay '' .
Clayton freed himself from the embrace and stepped back .
The eyes followed him fearfully .
`` The horses .
There isn't much time .
I'll saddle the horses and bring them round .
You get ready ''
He burst from the hot confinement of the room into the cold night air .
Gavin's stallion was in the barn and he tightened the cinches over the saddle blanket , working by touch in the darkness , comforting the animal with easy words .
When he had finished he led him and the mare to the porch .
The stallion had smelled the mare coming into heat and began to paw the turf , shaking his head .
Clayton looped the reins in a knot over the veranda post and patted the warm flesh of his neck .
The mare had backed away .
`` You take it easy , boy '' , Clayton whispered .
`` She doesn't want you now .
You take it easy , your time will come '' .
Gavin stood on the porch , a thin figure .
He had taken a carbine down from the wall and it trailed from his hand , the stock bumping on the wood floor .
Clayton called to him and he came slowly down the steps .
`` Clay '' , he said , `` where are we goin '' ? ?
`` To a ranch in the valley .
There's someone there I have to see .
We may take her with us -- to California .
I don't know yet , it's crazy ; ;
I have to think about it .
But California is where we're goin '' .
`` California '' .
Gavin began to nod .
`` That's a new land .
A man could make a mark there .
Two men , together like us , we could do somethin fine out there , maybe find a place where no one's ever been .
Start out fresh , the two of us , like nothin had ever happened '' .
`` Yes , like a father and son '' .
`` I made you what you are '' , Gavin whispered .
`` I made you so you could stand up .
I made you a man '' .
`` Yes , Gavin , you did '' .
He approached the horse and laid a hand on the stallion's quivering neck .
`` Help me up , Clay .
Help me up , I feel kind of stiff '' .
Clayton lifted him gently into the saddle , like a child .
`` I hate to leave my garden '' , Gavin said .
`` They'll trample it down .
I loved my garden '' .
`` It will grow again -- in California '' .
`` I loved this valley '' , he whispered huskily .
`` Lived alone here for three years , before any man came .
Lived alone by the river .
It was nice then , so peaceful and quiet .
There was no one but me .
I don't want to leave it '' .
Clayton swung into the saddle and whacked the stallion's rump .
The two horses broke from the yard , from the circle of light cast by the lamp still burning in the house , into the darkness .
Thirty-five
they rode at a measured pace through the valley .
Dawn would come soon and the night was at its coldest .
The moon had sunk below the black crest of the mountains and the land , seen through eyes that had grown accustomed to the absence of light , looked primeval , as if no man had ever trespassed before .
It looked as Gavin had first seen it years ago , on those nights when he slept alone by his campfire and waked suddenly to the hoot of an owl or the rustle of a blade of grass in the moon's wind -- a savage land , untenanted and brooding , too strong to be broken by the will of men .
Gavin sighed bitterly .
In that inert landscape the caravan of his desires passed before his mind .
He saw them ambushed , strewn in the postures of the broken and the dying .
In vain his mind groped to reassemble the bones of the relationships he had sought so desperately , but they would not come to life .
The silence oppressed him , made him bend low over the horse's neck as if to hide from a wind that had begun to blow far away and was twisting slowly through the darkness in its slow search .
They passed ranches that were framed dark gray against the black hills .
Then at last the darkness began to dissolve .
A bold line of violet broke loose from the high ridge of the mountains , followed by feathers of red that swept the last stars from the sky .
The wan light spread over the ground and the valley revealed in the first glimmer the contours of trees and fences and palely shadowed gullies .
They had been seen as soon as they left the ranch , picked out of the darkness by the weary though watchful eyes of two men posted a few hundred yards away in the windless shelter of the trees .
The two men whipped their horses into town and flung themselves up the steps of the saloon , crying their intelligence .
The men in Pettigrew's were tired from a night's drinking , their faces red and baggy .
But the liquor had flushed their courage .
They greeted the news angrily , as though they had been cheated of purpose .
Lester heard their muttering , saw their eyes reveal their desire .
He worked his tongue round and round in the hollow of his cheek and his voice came out of his throat , dry and cracked .
`` He's leavin .
That's what you wanted , isn't it ? ?
Clayton is with him , takin him out of the valley .
You can't '' --
`` Keep out of this '' , Purvis snarled .
`` He's not your brother , he's Gavin's son .
You see , he lied to us when he said he was leavin alone '' .
Joe Purvis was thinking back many years .
First he thought of the time he had ridden to Gavin and told him how his cattle were being rustled at the far end of the valley .
He remembered Gavin's smirk , his own cringing feeling , his impotence .
Then he thought of a time when Clayton's horse had fallen lame in the Gap .
His wife had said to him : `` Nellie is in love with Clayton Roy .
He wouldn't even dance with her at Gavin's party .
He treats her like she was dirt .
And you stand by like a fool and let him do it ''
He remembered Clayton's mocking smile in the saloon when he had asked him what he would do if they brought their cattle to water .
It was the night Clayton had tricked them in the poker game .
`` You're Gavin's son '' , Joe Purvis had said .
He turned to Lester .
`` You brought him back to this valley thinkin he would help you find your boy .
He meant to help Gavin all the time .
He made a fool of you , Lester '' .
He swung round to the other men -- `` We can catch him easy ! !
There are plenty of fresh horses halfway at my place .
If we let them go , they won't stay away , they'll find men to ride with them and they'll be back .
There's only one way they can get out now and that's through the Gap -- if we ride hard we can take them '' .
Lester's hand fluttered to Cabot's shoulder .
The boy jerked away .
`` He killed Tom -- do you understand that '' ? ?
Cabot turned back to the men and he was drunk with the thing they would do , wild to break from the cloying warmth of the saloon into the cold of the ebbing night .
He fled through the door and down the steps , running , and the men grunted and followed , pushing Lester to one side where he backed against the wall with the sleeve of his jacket raised before his eyes to shut out the light .
Purvis and Silas Pettigrew were the last to leave .
They mounted up and rode slowly behind the others at a safe distance .
Thirty-six
in the cold dawn the mist swirled low to the ground , then rose with a gust of sudden wind to leave the valley clear .
The clouds parted and hard gashes of sunlight swooped down to stain the earth with streaks of white and gold light so that the shadows of the running horses flowed like dark streams over the dazzling snow .
When they turned in the saddle they could see the men behind them , strung out on the prairie in a flat black line .
The wind of their running was cold and wild , the horses were lathered and their manes streamed like stiff black pennants in the wind .
The mare began to tire and Clayton felt the spray of snow from the hoofs of Gavin's stallion .
He looked over his shoulder at the thin dotting of pursuers .
They neither gained nor fell back .
He rode low on the mare's neck .
Ahead of him Gavin turned slightly off the trail and pointed for the Gap , no more than a mile away .
Gavin's face was bloodless with excitement .
He did not look back ; ;
he could feel more than hear the staccato beat of hoofs that fanned out across the prairie to the north .
He knew who was riding after him -- the men he had known all his life , the men who had worked for him , sworn their loyalty to him .
Now they were riding to kill him .
And he was fleeing , running -- fleeing his death and his life at the same time .
The land over which he sped was the land he had created and lived in : his valley .
With every leaping stride of the horse beneath him he crossed one more patch of earth that had been his , that he would never see again .
The Gap looming before him -- the place where had confronted Jack English on that day so many years ago -- was his exit from all that had meaning to him .
California is too far , he thought .
He would never reach California .
He was too old -- when he passed up and through the corridor of pines that lined the trail he could see ahead , he was passing from life .
The sentry was not dead .
He was , in fact , showing signs of reviving .
He had been carrying an Enfield rifle and a holstered navy cap-and-ball pistol .
A bayonet hung in a belt scabbard .
He was partially uniformed in a cavalry tunic and hat .
Mike stripped these from him and donned them .
He and Dean tied and gagged the man , using his belt and shirt for the purpose .
They dragged him inside the building .
Fiske joined them , unsteady on his feet .
Julia , seeing the bandage , rushed to him .
`` You are hurt '' ! !
She breathed .
`` I never felt better in my life '' , Fiske blustered .
He turned to Susan and kissed her on the cheek .
`` Thank you , My dear '' , he said .
`` You are very brave '' .
Mike silenced them .
`` We'll talk later .
First , we've got to get out of here '' .
`` We'll grab horses '' , Dean said .
`` The main bunch is outside , but there are some over there inside the wall '' .
Mike debated it , trying to decide whether Fiske was strong enough to ride .
But it at least offered him a chance for living .
He had none here .
And , for the sake of Julia and Susan , it had to be tried .
The guerrilla bivouac remained silent .
Light showed in the orderly room across the parade ground .
Someone evidently was on duty there .
No doubt there would be men guarding the horses .
About a dozen animals were held inside the stockade , as best Mike could make out in the moonlight .
Evidently this was a precaution so that mounts would be available in an emergency .
He handed the guard's rifle to Fiske .
`` Dean and myself will try to cut out horses to ride '' , he said .
`` We'll stampede the rest .
You stay with the ladies .
All of you be ready to ride hell for leather '' .
He added , `` If this doesn't work out , the three of you barricade yourself in the house and talk terms with them '' .
He handed the bayonet to Dean and kept the pistol .
Susan halted Dean and kissed him .
She clung to him , talking to him , and dabbing at her eyes .
Mike turned away .
He was thinking that the way she had responded to his own kiss hadn't meant what he had believed it had .
He felt unutterably weary .
Dean turned from Susan and took Julia Fortune in his arms .
He kissed her also , and with deep tenderness .
She too began to weep .
He released her and joined Mike .
`` All right '' , he said .
Mike only said , `` Later '' .
`` Be careful , McLish '' ! !
Susan said fiercely .
`` The way you were careful '' ? ?
He snorted .
`` Running around in the moonlight almost naked and slugging a man with a rock '' ? ?
He kept going .
He wanted no more sentimental scenes with her .
He might say or do something foolish .
Something all of them would regret .
He might tell her how sorry a spectacle she was making of herself , pretending to be blind to the way Julia Fortune had taken Dean's affections from her .
And using him , Mike McLish , as a sop to her pride .
He handed the bayonet to Dean and kept the pistol .
`` Stay well back of me '' , he said .
`` I'm going to walk up to the horses , bold as brass , pretending I'm one of the guerrillas .
There's bound to be someone on guard , but the hat might fool them long enough for me to get close '' .
Holding the pistol concealed , he walked to the rear wall of the stockade .
It was pierced by a wagon gate built of two wings .
One wing stood open .
Mike passed through it and moved toward the dark mass of horses .
They were tethered , army style , on stable lines .
A voice spoke near-at-hand .
`` Who's that '' ? ?
Just me '' , Mike said .
`` Is that you , Bill '' ? ?
He located his man .
The guard stood in the shadow of the stockade wall just out of reach of the moonlight .
Mike kept walking and got within arm's reach before the man became suspicious and straightened from his lax slouch .
Mike struck with the muzzle of the pistol .
But the luck that had been running their way left him .
The guard instinctively parried the blow with his rifle .
He tried to veer the rifle around to fire into Mike's body .
Mike , off balance , managed to bat the muzzle away a moment before it exploded .
The bullet went wide .
Mike swung the pistol in a savage backlash .
This time it connected solidly on the man's temple , felling him .
The explosion of the rifle had crashed against the walls of the stockade and the deep echoes were still rolling in the hills .
The startled horses began rearing on their tethers .
Dean came rushing up .
`` Are you hit '' ? ?
He demanded .
`` No , but the fat's in the fire '' ! !
Mike said .
`` There's no chance now of all of us getting away .
You'll have to try it alone '' .
The sentry's saddled horse stood picketed nearby , having been kept handy in case of need .
Mike took the bayonet from Dean's hand and slashed the picket line .
`` Up you go '' ! !
He said .
`` Ride '' ! !
Dean resisted Mike's attempt to push him toward the horse .
`` Why not you '' ? ?
He protested .
`` Dammit '' ! !
Mike said frantically .
`` You're lighter than me .
It's our only chance now .
Try to find these Feds .
The rest of us can fort up in the house and hang on until you get back .
You're the one that's taking the big chance '' .
Dean still hesitated , but Mike lifted him almost bodily into the saddle and thrust the reins in his hand .
`` No telling how good this horse is '' , Mike panted .
`` Favor him and save something in case you hit trouble .
Watch out for Apaches when it comes daylight .
Take the pistol .
You might need it .
We'll still have the rifle , and I might be able to round up some more .
I'll stampede the rest of these horses so they can't chase you '' .
Dean leaned from the saddle and gave him a mighty whack on the back .
`` McLish '' , he said as he kicked the horse into motion , `` I'd be a mighty sad man if we never met again '' .
Then he was on his way at a gallop .
Mike ran down the line , slashing picket ropes with the bayonet .
He lifted a screeching war whoop .
That touched off a total stampede .
He darted inside the stockade and freed the horses there .
These poured through the gate and joined the flight .
The animals thundered away into the moonlight , heading for the ridges .
The guerrillas were swarming from their bivouac at the west end of the enclosure .
`` Apaches '' ! !
Mike yelled .
`` They're stealin' the stock '' ! !
He scuttled in shadow along the east wall of the stockade and then followed the south wall until he was at the rear of the two frame buildings .
He crouched there .
His shout had been taken up and repeated .
The guerrillas were running across the parade ground and through the rear gate in the wake of the departing horses .
All were carrying guns they had seized up , but they were half-clad or hardly clad at all .
Durkin and Calhoun came running from the post .
They had pistols in their hands .
They bawled questions that were not answered in the uproar .
They followed the others toward the east gate .
Beyond the stockade rifles began to explode as some of the guerrillas fired at shadows that they imagined were Apaches .
Mike made a dash to the rear of the frame buildings .
He crawled beneath the two supply wagons which stood between the buildings and peered around a corner .
The area was deserted .
A man was standing in the open door of the lighted orderly room a few yards to Mike's left , but he , too , suddenly made up his mind and went racing to join the confused activity at the east end of the stockade .
Mike crawled to the door and peered in .
The orderly room seemed to be deserted .
A lantern hung from a peg , giving light .
Ducking inside , he found that three rifles were stacked in a corner .
A brace of pistols , holstered on belts , hung from a peg , along with ammunition pouches .
An ammunition case stood open , containing canisters which contained powder cartridges .
Mike seized a blanket from a pallet in a corner , spread it on the floor and used it to form a bag in which he placed his booty .
Shouldering the load he peered from the door .
His looting of the orderly room had taken only a minute or two and the vicinity was still clear of guerrillas .
He looked at the looming hoods of the supply wagons , struck by a new inspiration .
He set his bundle down .
Snatching the lantern from its peg , he shattered its globe with a blow against a post .
He picked up the powder canister and ran out .
Bursting paper cartridges , he scattered powder beneath the nearest wagon and dumped the contents of the canister upon it .
He shouldered the blanket again , backed off , and tossed the lantern with its open wick beneath the wagon .
He turned and raced across the parade ground toward the rock house .
Powder flame gushed beneath the wagon .
The stockade was brilliantly lighted and the guerrillas sighted him .
They realized the truth .
Bullets began to snap past him .
One struck the muzzle of one of the rifles that projected from the shoulder pack .
Its force spun him around , but he recovered and got into stride again .
A bullet tore the earth from beneath his foot when he was a stride or two from safety .
Another struck him heavily in the thigh and he went down .
Guerrillas were racing toward him .
Susan and Julia came from the door and dragged him with them .
The three of them floundered through the door into the interior and fell in a heap .
Susan bounced to her feet and slammed the door .
She crouched aside as bullets beat at the portal , chewing into the planks .
Some tore entirely through the whipsawed post oak .
The iron hinges held , but the planks were in danger of being torn from the crossbars .
Mike rolled to Susan , grasped her around the knees , dragging her off her feet .
He hovered over her to shield her , for spent bullets were thudding against the rear walls .
He peered from a loophole .
Guerrillas were only a dozen yards away , charging the house .
Mike snatched a pistol from the heap of scattered booty and fired .
He dropped a man with the first bullet .
At the same moment Wheeler Fiske fired the rifle Mike had given him and another guerrilla was hit .
That halted the rush .
The guerrillas scattered for cover .
The wagons were burning fiercely .
The mudwagon had caught fire also .
The blaze was spreading to the frame buildings .
The guerrillas realized they faced a new problem .
`` Gawdamighty '' ! !
One screeched .
`` There goes our grub an' ammunition '' ! !
`` Get a bucket line going '' ! !
Calhoun shouted .
`` Hurry ! !
Hurry '' ! !
The guerrillas began a frantic search for pails in which to bring water from the spring .
But what few containers they found were inadequate .
Many of them , in increasing panic , came running with water in their hats in a ludicrous effort .
Both buildings were in flames .
The heat drove the guerrillas back .
The roof of the command post began to buckle .
`` Drag the wagons to the spring '' ! !
Lew Durkin yelled .
`` Run 'em right into the spring ! !
Hustle '' ! !
One of the wagons erupted a massive pillar of flame .
A sizable supply of powder had been touched off .
The wagons and the coach were beyond saving and so were the buildings .
The glow of the fire reached through the openings in the windows , giving light enough to examine Mike's wound .
The bullet had torn through the flesh just above the knee , inflicting an ugly gash that was forming a pool of blood on the floor .
But it had missed the bone and had passed on through .
Susan and Julia ripped strips from their clothing and bound the injury .
Mike tested the leg and found that he was able to hobble around on it .
`` So it wasn't the earthquake that made him return to his village '' ! !
`` No .
Now dammit , I don't want to go into any more explanations .
Here comes Jason .
Keep this to yourself '' .
Reverend Jason , looking worried , hurried toward us .
`` Anything wrong , cap'n ? ?
The men seem to think so '' .
`` Dirion found a large war party south of us .
They'll probably attack at dawn '' , Montero said .
He brushed past the clergyman and walked into the center of the camp .
Using his hands as a trumpet he shouted , `` Fort up ! !
Fort up ! !
There's a large war party on their way '' ! !
For a second , engages , cooks , voyageurs appeared struck dumb .
Then Little Billy began shouting orders to round up the ponies and fill the water buckets and for the cooks to hurry up with the meal .
They all flew into action .
`` That was a terrible thing to do '' , I said to Oso .
The Aricaras treated us like friends .
And here all the time you knew the Sioux would be using our rifles on them ! !
God , what a world you people live in '' .
Oso gave me an unruffled look .
`` Old Knife's got the largest war party ever seen on the river '' , he said calmly .
`` What would you have done in Montero's moccasins ? ?
Let Old Knife come up and kill you and your people , or would you steer him on someone else '' ? ?
He shook his head .
`` Mr. Manuel did that in the war .
That's why the British never got the tribes to fight for the King .
Mr. Manuel whispered in the ears of the Sioux that the Cheyennes were comin' to raid 'em for their horses .
Then he went on to the Cheyennes and told them that the Sioux was goin' to move up .
He did that with all the Nations .
Hell , they were fightin' each other so hard they had no time for anyone else .
The War Department wrote Mr. Manuel a letter and said he was a hero .
I saw that letter .
He carried it in a little wallet made of fish skin '' .
`` But that was war '' , I said .
`` There's no war on now '' .
`` You're wrong , Matt .
In this country there's a war on every time the grass turns green .
First it was the Nations against themselves , then it was them against the whites .
And it's goin' to go on like this year after year until the white people take over this land '' .
I remember being told it would happen so fast people would think it took place overnight .
`` That's why this company's important .
Once we get over the mountains others will come along .
That's why the Trust don't want us to make it .
That bastard Chambers ! !
-- Old Knife's not the only chief he'll get to do his dirty work ! !
Before we get through he'll have the Blackfeet hankerin' for our hair and our goods .
Well , talkin' ain't goin' to help -- let's fort up '' ! !
As I dug in behind one of the bales we were using as protection , I grudgingly found myself agreeing with Oso's logic , especially when I imagined what would have happened to Missy if Old Knife's large party of screeching warriors had overrun our company .
For , unlike the Sioux and the Crows , the Aricaras are not great horsemen , nor are they aggressive like the savage Blackfeet .
More of an agricultural nation , they have relied on their warriors only for defense and for survival in the endless wars of the plains .
Still , I was disgusted with myself for agreeing with Montero's methods .
Surprisingly , he had told the others what he had done .
In the brief moment I had to talk to them before I took my post on the ring of defenses , I indicated I was sickened by the methods men employed to live and trade on the river .
`` I think Montero did right '' , Amy said firmly .
`` Let the savages kill each other .
What do we care '' ? ?
Reverend Jason was understandably bitter .
`` It was a terrible thing to do .
Those little children .
''
But Oso replied calmly , `` Trouble ain't easy to dodge out in this country , rev'rend '' .
28 .
Attack
Gray Eyes attacked our camp just as the first pink threads stitched together the hills and the sky .
Our camp was in the center of a wide valley .
Montero had set up a strong position , using every bale and box we had in addition to barricades of logs and brush .
He had ordered the ponies brought inside the fortified circle and had assigned Pierre and a band of picked engages the job of trying to keep them steady under fire .
The pony herd was the one flaw in our defense ; ;
the Rees undoubtedly would try to cut down as many of the animals as possible .
Wildly bucking horses would make the position difficult to defend against charging warriors .
The cooks had prepared one of the best meals we'd had in a long time , and on Montero's orders had baked enough bread to last the day .
Buckets were filled , the herd fed and watered .
The worst part had been the waiting ; ;
although we didn't expect the attack before dawn , the long cloudy night , filled with the sounds of the industrious insects , seemed endless .
Coyotes and hunting wolves sounded like signaling Indian scouts , the whinny of a restless pony made one's skin crawl .
Oso slept unconcernedly , his rifle cradled in his arms ; ;
I didn't catch a wink .
Every time I closed my eyes , I saw Gray Eyes rushing at me with a knife .
It was a relief when they finally came .
They poured through the opening in the valley , then spread out in a long line to come at us , brandishing their lances and filling the morning with their spine-chilling scalp cry .
`` Oso '' , Montero called `` I'll get Gray Eyes '' .
`` That'll be a pleasure to see '' , the big black murmured as he stared down the barrel of his rifle .
`` Hold your fire '' , Montero was shouting .
`` Wait until my shot .
I'll shoot the first man who doesn't '' .
I could see them in my sights .
They were about a mile off ; ;
under me the ground quivered slightly .
At first they were only feathers and dark indistinguishable faces and bodies , hunched over their horses' heads .
Gradually they emerged as men .
Gray Eyes was in the lead .
His face was split by a vermilion streak , his eyes were pools of white ; ;
jagged red and black medicine symbols covered his chest .
He was naked except for a clout .
Next to him was a young boy I was sure had sat near me at one of the trading sessions .
His mouth was open , his neck corded with the strain of his screams .
I found his chest in my sights .
It had a red circle .
The circle came nearer and nearer .
My God , how long is he going to wait , I thought .
Montero's rifle cracked .
At first I thought he had missed .
Gray Eyes remained erect .
The feathered lance was still above his head .
As he started to slump over , another warrior swung him onto his horse .
I squeezed the trigger .
At the last second I dropped my sights from the bare chest and bright red circle to the chest of his pony .
I saw the pony fall like a stone and the young warrior flew over its head , bouncing like a rubber ball .
He started to run but Oso's shot caught him on the wing .
He jerked once in the grass and lay still .
`` If you're goin' to kill 'em -- ! !
Kill 'em '' ! !
Oso growled .
What else he said was lost in the rattle of gunfire on all sides .
The Aricaras broke under the devastating fire , wheeled and retreated .
`` Lead up ! !
Lead up ! !
They'll be back '' ! !
Montero was shouting .
Far up the valley I could see the Rees circling and reorganizing .
Out in front of our walls the grass was covered with dead and dying men , war shields , lances , blankets and wounded and dead horses .
The morning air was filled with the sweetish odor of new-spilled blood , the acrid stench of frightened horses , and the bitterness of burned powder .
A horse screamed as it twisted from side to side in a frenzy .
A rifle cracked ; ;
the square head fell over .
One of the warriors suddenly leaped to his feet and began running across the valley to the trees that lined the small creek .
His legs pumped furiously , his long black hair streamed out behind him .
There was a ragged volley .
He was dead before he hit the ground .
`` For Christ's sake , don't waste your powder on one of 'em '' ! !
Montero shouted furiously .
`` Wait for the charge ! !
The charge , I tell you '' ! !
The sharp cries at the end of the valley were faint .
They grew louder as the Indians charged again .
I could see their faces glistening with sweat and bear grease , their mouths open , shouting their spine-chilling cries .
`` Gray Eyes is back , , Montero said .
The war captain had been badly wounded and was fighting to hold his seat .
I could see the blood running down his chest .
He was riding between two warriors , who held him erect when he started to slump .
I forgot to aim .
In my sights I watched him looming bigger and bigger .
Montero's shot had caught him high in the chest ; ;
there was no doubt he was dying .
Again we waited for Montero .
This time he delayed so long that some of the engages shouted frantically , but they held their fire .
The horses were only several lengths away when he fired .
The bullet flung Gray Eyes from his horse .
Our rolling volley swept most of the other riders from their mounts .
But a few reached our wall .
I heard the whir of an ax and a Canadian's face burst apart in a bloody spray .
I saw Little Billy rise and fire almost point blank and an Indian's face became shattered flesh and bone .
A second leaped from his horse to the top of the bale , firing four arrows in such rapid succession it didn't seem possible they were in flight .
Men screamed .
Oso reached up , jerked the buck from the bale and snapped his neck .
Other Indians were running at the ponies , shrilling and waving blankets .
Reverend Jason got one , the Canadians the others .
I saw the clergyman kneel for a moment by the twitching body of the man he had shot , then run back to his position .
The ponies were almost uncontrollable .
The pall of dust they raised made it difficult to see when the Aricaras charged again .
This time more of them hurdled the barrier .
A small Indian dived at Montero , who caught him with a swift upward stroke of his rifle butt .
It sounded like a man kicking a melon .
Above me a dark rider was whipping his pony with a quirt in an attempt to hurdle the bales .
Although my shot killed his horse , he rolled off the bale on top of me .
I could smell woodsmoke , grease , and oil .
His eyes were dark , fluid , fearful , and he gave a sigh as my knife went in .
Coming over the wall he had seemed like a hideous devil .
Now under me I could see him for what he really was , a boy dressed up in streaks of paint .
The Aricaras made one last desperate charge .
It was pitiful to see the thin ranks of warriors , old and young , wheeling and twisting their ponies frantically from side to side only to be tumbled bleeding from their saddles by the relentless slam , slam of the cruelly efficient Hawkinses .
Others , badly wounded , gripped hands in manes , knees in bellies , held on as long as possible and then , weak from ghastly wounds , slipped sideways , slowly , almost thoughtfully , to be broken under the slashing hoofs .
Some gracefully soared from the backs of their wounded , screaming mounts to make one last defiant charge before the lead split their hearts or tore their guts .
None of them reached our walls again .
The few survivors grudgingly turned away .
In the distance we could hear the drums and the wail of the death song .
She was carrying a quirt , and she started to raise it , then let it fall again and dangle from her wrist .
`` I saw your fire '' , she said , speaking slowly , making an effort to control her anger .
`` You could burn down this whole mountainside with a fire that size .
It wouldn't matter to a fool like you .
It would to me '' .
`` All right '' , Wilson said quickly .
`` The fire's too big .
And I appreciate the advice '' .
He was losing patience again .
An hour before , with the children asleep and nothing but the strange darkness , he would have appreciated company .
She had helped him change his mind .
`` I'm not advising you '' , she said .
`` I'm telling you .
That fire's too big .
Let it burn down .
And make sure it's out when you leave in the morning '' .
He was taken aback .
It took him a long time to compose himself .
`` There's some mistake '' , he said finally .
`` You're right about the fire .
It's bigger than it has to be , though I don't see where it's doing any harm .
But you're wrong about the rest of it .
I'm not leaving in the morning .
Why should I ? ?
I own the place '' .
She showed her surprise by tightening the reins and moving the gelding around so that she could get a better look at his face .
It didn't seem to tell her anything .
She glanced around the clearing , taking in the wagon and the load of supplies and trappings scattered over the ground , the two kids , the whiteface bull that was chewing its cud just within the far reaches of the firelight .
She studied it for a long time .
Then she turned back to Wilson and smiled , and he wasn't quite sure what she meant by it .
`` You own this place '' ? ?
She said , and her tone had softened until it was almost friendly .
`` You bought it '' ? ?
`` From a man in St. Louis '' , Wilson said .
`` Jake Carwood .
Maybe you know him '' .
The girl laughed .
`` I know him .
I ought to .
My father ran him off here six years ago '' .
Wilson didn't say anything .
He stood watching the girl , wondering what was coming next .
She had picked up the quirt and was twirling it around her wrist and smiling at him .
`` Carwood didn't tell you that '' , she said .
`` No '' , Wilson said .
`` But it's understandable .
It's not the kind of thing that a man would be proud of .
And it doesn't make any difference .
He sold me a clear title .
I have it with me , right here .
If you want to see '' --
`` Never mind '' , she said sternly .
`` It wouldn't matter to my father , and not to me .
I meant what I said about that fire .
Be sure it's out when you leave .
That's all .
I'll let you go back to doing the dishes now '' .
It was meant to insult him , and didn't quite succeed .
He took the reins just below the bit and held them firmly , and it was his turn to smile now .
`` I don't mind washing dishes now and then '' , he said pleasantly .
`` It doesn't hurt .
It might hurt you , though .
Somebody might mistake you for a woman '' .
He meant to say more , but he never got the chance .
She was quick .
She brought the quirt down , slashing it across his cheek , and he tried to step back .
She swung the quirt again , and this time he caught her wrist and pulled her out of the saddle .
She came down against him , and he tried to break her fall .
He grabbed her by the shoulders and went down on one knee , taking her weight so that some of the wind was driven out of him .
It made him a little sick , and he let go of her .
He got up slowly , and she was already on her feet , and he stood facing her .
He wiped the blood from his cheek .
`` I ought to '' -- he said .
He was shaking with anger , his breath coming in long , painful gasps .
`` That quirt -- I ought to use it on you , where it would do the most good .
If you were a man '' --
`` She isn't , mister '' .
The voice came from behind him , and Wilson turned .
The fire had gone down , and the man was only a shadow against the trees .
But a moment later he brought his horse forward into the light , and Wilson had a good look at him .
He was tall and dark-skinned , a half-breed , Wilson thought .
And he was handsome , despite the long thin scar that slanted across his cheek .
`` She's not a man , mister '' , he said .
`` I am .
If you've got any ideas '' .
He raised the Winchester and pointed it at Wilson's chest .
`` Put the rifle down , Joseph '' , the girl said .
She seemed irritated .
`` I thought I told you to stay home '' .
The half-breed eased the Winchester down and rested it across his lap .
The scar looked pure white in the half-darkness ; ;
his eyes were black and deep-set , and expressionless .
`` You shouldn't be riding up here after dark , Judith '' , he said quietly .
`` I can take care of this .
It's no job for you '' .
The girl tapped the quirt impatiently against her knee and glared at him .
He took it without flinching .
`` I said go home , Joseph .
You've got no business up here '' .
The half-breed didn't answer this time .
But the scar seemed to pull hard at the corner of his mouth , and his eyes were hurt and angry .
It made Wilson wonder .
He watched the half-breed as he turned silently .
They could hear the pony's feet on the dry leaves for a while , then the sound faded out .
Wilson brushed the dust from his coat .
`` Who was that '' ? ?
He asked .
`` Your personal guard ? ?
You're pretty hard on him '' .
`` He works for my father '' , the girl said , and then seemed to change her mind .
`` He's a friend .
His name's Joseph Sanchez .
Is there anything else you want to know '' ? ?
`` Not now '' , Wilson said .
`` I guess I'll find out soon enough .
You've got blood on your cheek .
Not yours .
Mine .
It must have got there when you fell against me '' .
She wiped it off with the sleeve of her coat .
`` I'll bet that's as close as you've been to a man since you were a baby '' , Wilson said .
He saw her hand start to work down the leather thong toward the handle of the quirt , and he grabbed her wrist .
`` Oh , no '' , he said , and he was without humor now .
`` I've had enough of that .
I've had enough of you .
I don't know what goes on around here , and I don't care .
I don't know what makes you think you can get away with this kind of business , and I don't care about that , either .
You took me by surprise .
But I'll know how to handle you next time '' .
She brought up her free hand to hit him , but this time he was quicker .
He side-stepped her blow and she fell , stumbling against the gelding .
She finally regained her balance and got up in the saddle .
Her hat had come off and fallen behind her shoulders , held by the string , and he could see her face more clearly than he had at any time before .
He had forgotten that she was so pretty .
But her prettiness was what he had noticed first , and all the other things had come afterward : cruelty , meanness , self-will .
He had known women like that , one woman in particular .
And one had been too many .
He watched the girl until she had gone into the trees , and waited until he couldn't hear the sound of her horse any longer , then went up to where the children were sleeping .
They weren't sleeping , of course , but they thought they were doing him a favor by pretending .
He hadn't shown up too well in their eyes , letting himself be browbeaten by a woman .
They expected greater things from him , regardless of how trying the circumstances , and they were disappointed .
And determined not to show it .
They lay a little too stiffly , with their eyes straining to stay closed .
`` Go to sleep '' , he said .
`` Both of you .
There's better things to do than listen to something like that .
I'll be down at the creek finishing the dishes , if you want me '' .
He found the pan where he had dropped it and carried it back down to the stream .
The coyote was calling again , and he hoped that this time there would be no other sounds to interrupt it .
Not tonight , at any rate .
He had a feeling that the girl meant trouble .
If she did , he could stand it better in the light .
He scrubbed absent-mindedly at the pans and reflected on how things had turned out .
That afternoon when they had pulled up in front of the broken-down ranch house , his hopes had been high .
Already some of the pain had gone from Amelia's death .
Not all of it .
There would still be plenty of moments of regret and sadness and guilty relief .
But they were starting a new life .
And they had almost everything they needed : land , a house , two whiteface bulls , three horses .
The land wasn't all Wilson had expected of it .
Six hundred and forty acres , the old man back in St. Louis had said ; ;
good grass , good water .
Well , the grass was there , though in some places the ground was too steep for a cow to get to it .
The water was there , so much of it that it spread all through the dead orchard .
And there was a house ; ;
livable perhaps , but badly in need of repairs .
In the last analysis , though , Wilson had little cause to complain .
The place had been cheap -- just the little he had left after Amelia's burial -- and it would serve its purpose .
There was only one place where Jake Carwood's description had gone badly awry : the peace and quiet .
It hadn't started out that way .
And he had a feeling -- thanks to the girl -- that things would get worse before they got better .
2
They had the house cleaned up by noon , and Wilson sent the boy out to the meadow to bring in the horses .
He stood on the porch and watched him struggling with the heavy harness , and finally went over to help him .
Kathy was already in the wagon .
They were going to town , and they were both excited .
Wilson backed the team into the traces , and wished they weren't going to town at all .
He had an uneasy feeling about it .
That girl last night , what was her name ? ?
Judith Pierce .
It was the only thing about her that was the least bit hard to remember .
He finished with the team and filled his pipe and stood looking about him .
He had spent two hours riding around the ranch that morning , and in broad daylight it was even less inviting than Judith Pierce had made it seem .
There was brush , and stands of pine that no grass could grow under , and places so steep that cattle wouldn't stop to graze .
But there was water .
There was an artificial lake just out of sight in the first stand of trees , fed by a half dozen springs that popped out of the ground above the hillside orchard .
Yes , there was plenty of water , too much , and that was probably the trouble .
There were tracks of cattle all over his six hundred and forty acres .
The first part of the road was steep , but it leveled off after the second bend and curled gradually into the valley .
It was hotter once they reached the flat , and drier , but the grass was better .
A warm breeze played across it , moving it like waves .
A red-tailed hawk flew in behind them and stayed there , watching for any snakes or rabbits that they might stir up from the side of the road .
It took them an hour before they came to the first houses of Kelseyville .
The town was about what Wilson expected : one main street with its rows of false-fronted buildings , a water tower , a few warehouses , a single hotel ; ;
all dusty and sunbaked .
The place was quiet .
Such was my state of mind that I did not question the possibility of this ; ;
under the circumstances I was only too willing to confess all .
I was nearly thirty at the time .
I went to the hall in the afternoons only , on these preliminary matters .
It was dark and , I sensed , very large ; ;
only the counter at one end was lighted by a long fluorescent tube suspended directly above it .
Sometimes I was aware of people moving about in the darkness .
I would turn away from my writing in the hope of getting a good look at them but I never quite succeeded .
A glimpse of three of four vague figures , at the most .
Drifting here and there .
Squatting , as if waiting .
The pulsing glow of a cigarette .
Since they could see me but I not them , their presence in the hall disturbed me .
The clerk paid them no attention .
This impressed me , until I realized how limited was his sphere of influence .
His job simply consisted in registering new men .
When the phone rang he answered it .
His authority extended to the far edge of the counter , no further .
None of the men hanging around the hall bothered to speak to him .
Baldness was attacking his pate .
He spoke to me in a gruff voice , an affectation which quite belied his personality .
He wore his white shirt open at the neck , revealing a bit of scrawny pale chest underneath .
It was obvious that he wished himself different from the sort of person he thought he was .
But it was not easy for him and he often slipped .
When one of the men in the hall behind us spat on the floor and scraped his boot over the gob of spittle I noticed how the clerk winced .
I felt certain he was really a spineless little man .
His hat ( the cause of his baldness ? ?
) hung on a hook on the wall , and underneath it I could see his tie , knotted , ready to be slipped over his head , a black badge of frayed respectability that ought never to have left his neck .
The morning's tabloids were on the counter , and a stack of dog-eared men's magazines .
On a shelf in the office behind the counter was a small radio dialed permanently on a station which broadcast only vulgar commercials and cheap popular music .
Everything about the clerk was trivial .
Once , pressing him , I learned that his job was only part-time , in the afternoons when nothing went on in the hall .
Noticing my disappointment he attempted to salvage what scraps and shreds of authority he felt might still be clinging to his person .
With distaste I saw him assume a pompous air .
When he saw me coming he turned his radio off .
He made a show of rearranging my forms on the shelf .
He would pick up the ringing phone with studied negligence , then bark into it with gruff importance .
What limited knowledge he possessed he forced upon me .
In the mornings , I was informed , fluorescent tubes , similar to the one above the counter , illuminated the entire hall .
They , and the two large fans which I could dimly see as daylight filtered through their vents , down at the far end of the hall , could be turned on by a master switch situated inside the office .
He pointed out the switch to me and for a moment I foolishly believed that he would let deed follow words .
I was shown , instead , a batch of white tickets of the sort handed out , he told me , every morning .
Now , here was something of obvious importance to me , yet when I reached for the tickets he snatched them away from my hand .
He couldn't afford to have anyone mess around with them , he said .
Each of those tickets was of great value to its rightful recipient .
I withdrew my hand .
Later I would remember what this pompous little man had told me about the worth of a ticket .
Having nothing else to do except wait for my forms to be processed , I gave myself over to speculations concerning the hall itself .
When suitably lighted , what would it look like ? ?
The presence of the two exhaust fans seemed to indicate that the hall could become crowded for air .
One afternoon , upon receiving permission and the necessary instructions from the clerk , I had visited the toilet adjoining the hall .
By counting the number of stalls and urinals I attempted to form a loose estimate of how many men the hall would hold at one time .
For although I had crossed a corner of the hall on my way to the toilet I still could not tell for sure how far to the rear the darkness extended .
I could observe the two fans down at the end , but their size in themselves meant nothing to me as long as I had no measure of comparison .
I had for some time been hoping , in vain , for one of the dim figures to pass between the fan vents and myself .
I knew that three or four of them were almost always present in the hall , but what they were doing , and exactly where , I could not tell .
It was , I felt , possible that they were men who , having received no tickets for that day , had remained in the hall , to sleep perhaps , in the corners farthest removed from the counter with its overhead light .
This light did not penetrate very far back into the hall , and my eyes were hindered rather than aided by the dim daylight entering through the fan vents when I tried to pick out whatever might be lying , or squatting , on the floor below .
Also the clerk appeared to disapprove of my frequent curious glances back over my shoulder .
No sooner would I turn my head away from the counter before he would address me , at times quite sharply , in order to bring back my attention .
And I had hardly finished my business in the toilet on the aforementioned occasion when the lights in that place , like the hall lights controlled from the switch in the office , flicked off and on impatiently .
This sort of petty vigilance annoyed me .
I felt certain it was self-appointed .
It sprang from a type of mentality I'd encountered often enough but certainly had not expected to find here .
I decided to see no more of the clerk until the processing of my papers was completed .
I felt strongly attached to the hall , however , and hardly a day passed when I did not go to look at it from a distance .
I lived in a state of suspense because of it .
I could not cling to my past nor did I wish to .
I had signed it off on the forms .
My future lay solely with the hall , yet what did I know about the hall at this point ? ?
Although I had been inside it I had not yet seen it functioning .
I wished to prepare myself but did not even know what sort of clothes I ought to be wearing .
I did not despair , however ; ;
far from it ! !
I was constantly searching for clues around the neighborhood of the hall .
Though only a relatively short walk separated it from my own part of town , its character was wholly foreign to me .
Large warehouses flanked the street on which the hall fronted .
The river was only a few blocks away but an unbroken line of piers prevented me from seeing it .
Sometimes I noticed the tops of ships' masts and funnels reaching above the pier roofs .
The sounds issuing from beyond -- winches whirring , men shouting -- indicated great activity and excited me .
The hall , on the other hand , appeared lifeless and deserted on these long waterfront afternoons .
It resembled nothing I'd ever seen before .
Its front was windowless , but irregularities in the masonry might be an indication that windows , now blinded , had once looked out upon the street .
I kept circling the block hoping to see , from the street behind it , the rear of the hall .
But it was not a tall structure and other buildings concealed it .
For weeks I wandered about this neighborhood of warehouses and garages , truck terminals and taxi repair shops , gasoline pumps and longshoremen's lunch counters , yet never did I cease to feel myself a stranger there .
I returned to the hall , despite my dislike for the clerk .
As I had expected , he insisted that my visits to the hall would do nothing to further the process of my application .
Meanwhile spring had passed well into summer .
At last , when I put it to him directly , the clerk was forced to admit that the delay in my case was unusual .
When I asked him what , if anything , I could do about it , he surprised me by referring me to the director of the hall .
I could consult this personage on any weekday morning , though not before ten o'clock .
The clerk impressed this upon me : that I should not arrive in the hall before ten o'clock .
When I went for my interview with the director I saw why .
Although it was dark as usual I could see that the hall had only recently contained a great many people .
Cigarette butts littered the floor .
The big fans were going , drawing from the large room the remnants of stale smoke which drifted about in pale strata underneath the ceiling .
I had felt the draft they were making while mounting the stairs .
The staircase itself seemed still to be echoing the heavy footfalls of many men .
I stopped by the counter .
No one was behind it , but in the rear wall of the office I noticed , for the first time , a door which had been left partially open .
Past it I could see part part of a desk , a flag in a corner , a rug on the floor .
The director's office .
I rapped my knuckles on the counter .
The director came to the door .
I was at once disappointed , although just what I had expected him to look like I could not have explained .
He was a man in his late forties , with graying hair , of medium height ; ;
he looked dapper in a lightweight summer suit , brown silk tie and green-tinted soft collar .
He wore perforated , white-topped shoes ; ;
they somehow made me expect to see him launch into a vaudeville tapdance routine any moment .
But he came toward me sedately enough , showed me around the counter , offered me a seat inside his office , then walked to a file cabinet and got out my application .
I had the impression that he had read my forms , perhaps several times .
He did not look at them now .
As he lowered himself on the chair behind his desk I wondered what this dapper , slightly ridiculous man could possibly have to do with the workings of the hall .
He spoke , in a voice as immaculate as his appearance .
Why had I registered ? ?
Begging my pardon , he must express his astonishment over seeing a person of my background applying at the hall .
He had looked over my forms and was impressed by what he had seen there ; ;
indeed , my scholastic qualifications were such that he , a college graduate himself , must envy me them .
Was I sure , he asked , that I knew what I was applying for ? ?
What sort of men I would come into contact with , at the hall ? ?
These questions did not surprise me ; ;
I felt certain that the director , like the afternoon clerk , seldom moved beyond the counter , that the hall , to them , was a jungle , a dark and unwelcome place .
Though I doubted that he would understand me , I told the director my motives for applying .
I had always , I said , hankered after working hard with my hands .
This desire , I went on , growing voluble as my conviction was aroused , had mounted at such a rate recently that I now found its realization necessary not only to my physical but also to my spiritual wellbeing .
To this effect I had already severed all connections which bound me to my former existence .
The flat , hard cap was small , but he thrust it to the back of his head .
`` Tie him up '' .
`` Hell with it '' .
Before they could guess his intention Rankin stepped forward and swung the guard's own gun against the uncovered head , hard .
The man went over without sound , falling to the bare floor .
Barton said harshly , `` Why did you do that '' ? ?
Rankin sneered at him .
`` What did you want me to do , kiss him ? ?
He dumped me in solitary twice '' .
Barton caught the lighter man's shoulder and swung him around .
`` Let's get one thing straight , you and me .
The only reason we brought you was to get Miller out .
If you ever try anything without my orders I'll kill you '' .
Fred Rankin looked at him .
It seemed to Barton that the green eyes mocked him , the thin-lipped smile held insolence , but he had no time to waste now .
`` Come on .
Let's move '' .
They filed out through the guard-room door , into the paved square .
There were three other men within this prison whom Barton would have liked to liberate , but they were in other cell blocks .
There was no chance .
They moved slowly , toward the main gate , following the wall .
There was no moon .
They had chosen this night purposely .
They reached the guard house without alerting the men on the walls above , and Powers slipped through the door .
Two men were on duty inside , playing pinochle , relaxed .
They looked up in surprise as Powers came in .
`` What are you doing out of the block '' ? ?
`` It's Curtiss '' , he said , naming the man Rankin had hit .
`` I've got to have help '' .
They stared at him .
The sergeant in charge climbed to his feet .
`` What's wrong with him '' ? ?
`` He's having some kind of a fit '' .
The sergeant turned to the door .
As he passed through it Barton shoved his gun against the man's side .
`` One sound and you're dead '' .
The sergeant froze .
Powers had not followed .
Powers was covering the remaining guard .
The man half-reached for the cord of the alarm bell .
Powers knocked his arm aside .
Deliberately , with none of Rankin's viciousness , he laid the barrel of his gun alongside the guard's head .
They were free .
Even Barton could not quite believe it .
It had gone without a hitch .
They slid through the wicket in the big gate , ghosted across the dark ground .
Five minutes later they reached the horses .
Barton was relieved to see that Carl Dill and Emmett Foster had brought extra mounts .
He had been worried that with Miller and Rankin added to the escape party they would be short .
No one hurried .
They walked the horses , heading along the river , Barton and Emmett Foster in the lead , seven men riding quietly through the night .
The only thing which would have attracted attention was that two wore the uniform of prison guards , three the striped suits of convicts .
Five miles .
In a small grove against the river they halted , turning deep into the protection of the trees .
Foster had brought extra clothing also .
A good man , Emmett .
He had been one of the original Night Riders , one who had escaped the trial .
It was to him that Barton had sent Carl Dill on Dill's release from the prison .
Clyde Miller was crying softly to himself , shedding his striped suit and fumbling into the nondescript butternut pants , the worn brown shirt .
Kid Boyd was unusually silent , Rankin watchful , a few paces apart .
Barton finished his dressing and extended his hand to Powers .
`` I won't even try to thank you '' .
The ex-prison guard was embarrassed .
He said in a studied voice , `` I didn't do it for you .
I did it for the valley .
You're the only man the Night Riders will follow .
We've been starving and I don't like to starve '' .
Barton turned away , his eyes falling upon Rankin beside his horse .
`` Good luck '' .
The murderer lifted his head .
`` Meaning you want me to ride out '' ? ?
`` You aren't one of us .
There's nothing for you here '' .
`` I got no place to go '' .
Barton hesitated .
He did not trust Rankin , his violent temper , his killer instinct .
But ten years in prison had taught him realities .
They were in a fight , outweighed in both numbers and money .
It was all right to put a bunch of ranchers onto horses , to call them Night Riders , to set out to attack the largest mining combination the country had ever seen if all they wanted was adventure .
But if they really hoped to succeed they needed professionals , men who knew how to use a gun against men , who would match the killers on the other side .
`` Your choice '' , he said briefly , and turned to Kid Boyd .
`` Bury those uniforms so they won't be found '' .
Then Barton touched Carl Dill's arm and moved off , up the river bank .
He wanted a careful , uninterrupted report from Dill on the conditions in the valley .
They squatted on their heels in the deep mud and Dill found a cigar in his breast pocket , passing it over silently .
He too knew the agony of going for weeks , sometimes months without the solace of tobacco .
Mitchell Barton drew in the fragrance deeply , letting the smoke lie warm and soothing in his throat for a moment before he exhaled .
Through the gloom he could not see the man beside him clearly but he knew him thoroughly .
For his first five years in prison , they had shared a cell .
Carl Dill was neither a rancher nor a valley man .
He had been the auditor for the mining syndicate , and he had stolen fifty thousand dollars of the syndicate's money .
He had done time for the theft .
The one thing they had in common was their hatred .
Both hated Donald Kruger .
It had drawn them together , and since his release from prison Dill had worked tirelessly to effect this night's escape .
He said now , `` I've got the perfect headquarters set up .
The old Haskell mine '' .
Mitch Barton knew the place .
Twenty years before a group of Easterners had bought out the Haskell claims in the rocky hills south of Grass Valley .
They had spent a million dollars , carving in a road , putting up buildings , drilling their haulage tunnel .
Then the vein had petered out and the whole project had been abandoned .
`` The road's washed badly '' , said Dill , `` but there's a trail you can get over with a horse .
A company of cavalry couldn't come in there if two men were guarding that trail '' .
Barton nodded .
`` How do the valley people feel '' ? ?
`` As mad as ever .
But Kruger's men keep them off balance , and they don't trust me .
I'm an outsider .
When they learn you're in the hills though , they'll rally , don't worry about that '' .
Barton waited for a long moment , then asked the question which lay always uppermost in his mind .
`` My boy .
Did you find him '' ? ?
Dill was silent as if he hated to answer , and Barton had a cold , sick feeling of apprehension .
`` He's in Morgan's Ferry '' .
Barton half-straightened in surprise .
`` What's he doing there '' ? ?
Again Dill hesitated .
`` Dealing faro '' .
`` Dealing faro ? ?
How come '' ? ?
`` Your sister-in-law has the faro bank in Cap Ayres' saloon '' .
Barton cursed under his breath .
After another long pause he asked , `` How many people know who they are '' ? ?
`` Everyone .
Your cousin Finley saw to that .
He's quite a rat , you know .
He sold out to Kruger's men .
He's informed them of everything you've ever written him .
He wants your ranch '' .
Barton stood up .
He said tensely , `` All right .
Let's go get the boy '' .
Dill had come up also .
`` I was afraid of this .
I almost didn't tell you '' .
`` If you hadn't I'd have killed you '' .
Dill's voice tightened .
`` But you can't ride into the Ferry .
That's what they'll expect you to do .
They'll be there waiting for you .
I understand how you feel about the child .
''
`` The hell you do '' .
Barton's voice was rougher than Dill had ever heard it .
`` I never saw him .
My wife died in childbirth after I was sent away .
`` I can't leave him there .
Donald Kruger would like nothing better than to hold him as hostage , and I wouldn't entrust a snake to his tender care .
I've got to get the boy .
Let's ride '' .
Chapter two
Barton's men cut the telegraph wires in half a dozen places , carrying away whole sections to make repairs more difficult .
It was over an hour before their escape was discovered , but still the news that Barton was free flashed across the central portion of the state .
It reached Donald Kruger in his massive home in Burlingame .
It reached the mines at North San Juan and Bloomfield .
It brought men out of bed and sent them into hurried conferences .
For everyone involved knew that the whole valley was a powder keg , and Mitchell Barton the fuse which could send it into explosive violence .
Creighton Hague sat in his office above the Ione pit .
The office was of logs , four rooms , each heated by an iron stove .
The building was dwarfed by the scene outside .
There a dozen giant monitors played their seventy-five-foot jets of water against the huge seam of tertiary gravel which was the mountainside .
The gravel was the bed of an ancient river , buckled in some prehistoric upheaval of earth .
It was partially cemented by ages and pressure , yet it crumpled before the onslaught of the powerful streams , the force of a thousand fire hoses , and with the gold it held washed down through the long sluices .
A million dollars' of gold a month .
A million tons of rock and soil and brush .
The monitors ran twenty-four hours each day .
Their roar , like the swelling volume of a hundred tornadoes could be heard for miles .
Hague , like all who worked near the pits , was partly deafened from the constant assault against his eardrums .
He was a big man , wearing a neat flannel shirt against the cold foothill air .
Fat showed in loose rolls beneath the shirt .
Ten years older than Mitch Barton , he had clawed his way up from mucker in the pits to manager of the operation .
He was proud of his accomplishments , proud of his job , proud that Donald Kruger and his associates trusted him .
He lived and breathed for the mining company .
No man could have reached his spot nor held it without being ruthless , and Hague had made a virtue of ruthlessness all of his life .
There came a ghost of noise at the office door and Hague swung to see Kodyke in the entrance from the outer room .
Hague had never accustomed himself to Kodyke .
The man was tall , thin , with a narrow face and a too-large nose .
The eyes always held Hague , eyes of a dead man , lidless as a lizard's , with the fixed intensity of a cobra .
Even Hague was repelled by the machinelike deadliness that was Kodyke .
He knew nothing about the man's history .
Kodyke had appeared at the mine one day bearing a letter from Kruger .
Kodyke was to head the dread company police .
He ran the change rooms .
He threw out the hi-graders .
He supervised the cleanups and handled the shipments of raw gold which each week went out to San Francisco .
Hague squeezed down his uneasy dislike .
He pulled open the top drawer of his desk and drew out a tintype .
`` This is Mitchell Barton .
He broke out of Folsom last night .
Apparently he bribed one of the guards .
We want him back there or we want him dead '' .
Kodyke took the picture in a lean hand , studying it thoughtfully .
`` Dangerous '' ? ?
`` Dangerous , yes .
You know how the ranchers in the valley are .
They blame us for all their troubles .
Ten years ago they blew up some of our ditches .
It cost us a hundred thousand dollars and thirty days lost time to fix them .
We don't want Barton's Night Riders loose again '' .
The gunman nodded , slipping the picture into his breast pocket , saying nothing .
Normally Hague wasted no words , but now he found himself unable to stop their flow although he knew Kodyke was aware of all he said .
If she sensed any unusual preoccupation on the part of her mother , she did not comment upon it .
After they had finished eating , Melissa took Sprite the kitten under her arm -- `` so that Auntie Grace can teach it about the whistle '' -- and climbed into the station wagon beside her mother .
She had offered to walk , but Pamela knew she would not feel comfortable about her child until she had personally confided her to the care of the little pink woman who chose to be called `` Auntie '' .
When they reached their neighbor's house , Pamela said a few polite words to Grace and kissed Melissa lightly on the forehead , the impulse prompted by a stray thought -- of the type to which she was frequently subject these days -- that they might never see one another again .
Then she turned the station wagon around and headed it back down the hill , with the village as her ostensible destination .
As she drove , she thought about her plan .
It was really quite simple .
So simple , in fact , that it might even work -- although Pamela , now , in her new frame of mind , was careful not to pretend too much assurance .
That mistake , she thought , had cost her dearly these past few days , and she wanted to avoid falling into any more of the traps that the mountain might set for her .
She must be cautious so as not to alert the scheming forest .
When the station wagon drew abreast of the dusty dirt road that led up to the porch of the Culver house , Pamela turned the wheel , guiding the car to its familiar parking spot close to the house , and stopped .
All of her movements were careful and methodical , partaking of the stealth of a criminal who has plotted his felony for months in advance and knows exactly which step to take next in the course of the final execution of his crime .
She locked the ignition , removed the keys , stepped out of the car and went into the house .
Here , she dropped the keys on a small table beside the door and went upstairs to her bedroom .
On her bureau lay a small , brass ornament of simple design and faded engraving -- an object which , Pamela believed now , had been the property of her great-grandfather , Major Hiram Munroe Culver .
He had belonged to this land and , perhaps , had desecrated it -- and this was the only material symbol that remained of him .
If she , Pamela , were being held responsible for his crimes , then hers must be the final act of expiation .
She would return this symbol to the mountain , as one pours seed back into the soil every Spring or as ancient fertility cults demand annual human sacrifice .
Slowly and thoughtfully , she slipped the ornament into the pocket of her slacks , moved down the stairs and out of the house .
There was only one place where the mountain might receive her -- that unnamed , unnameable pool harbored in its secret bosom .
Atonement , if atonement were possible , could only be made at that sacred , sacrificial basin .
It was there that she would have to enact her renunciation , beg forgiveness .
Perhaps it was insane , Pamela thought .
Perhaps it was all a vividly conceived dream .
But she was caught in it , and she faced the terrible possibility that , if it were a dream , it was one from which she might never awaken .
Facing the forest now , she who had not dared to enter it before , walked between two trees at random and headed in what she believed was the direction of the pool .
She remembered little of her previous journey there with Grace , and she could but hope that her dedication to her mission would enable her to accomplish it .
The forest was open and freely welcoming , extending an enchanted hand .
The ground was covered with soft pine needles and the slope was gentle .
Birds chirped and chattered in the trees and the sun , all dewy-eyed and soft , caressed her shoulders warmly from time to time .
It was not , thought Pamela , such an evil place after all .
No wonder Melissa responded so completely to its beckoning .
Perhaps she had no reason to fear these trees that whispered their secrets above her head as she passed .
Was it not possible , after all , that the forest was in league with her and her child that its sympathy lay with the Culvers that she had erred in failing to understand this ? ?
Pamela felt calm and peaceful as she walked along .
The slight flutter that had disturbed the motion of her heart when she entered the forest was gone now , and even the dim groves of trees through which she occasionally passed did not reawaken her fear .
She regarded them as signs that she was nearing the glen she sought , and she was glad to at last be doing something positive in her unenunciated , undefined struggle with the mountain and its darkling inhabitants .
Having persisted too long in deliberate ignorance and denial of the forces that threatened her , Pamela was relieved now to admit their potency and to be taking definite steps toward grappling with them .
A few days ago , she would have thought such an expedition as this utterly ridiculous ; ;
today , on the contrary , it seemed utterly reasonable .
She did not pause to consider what she would do if her plan should fail ; ;
she directed all of her mental and physical energy toward achieving this one goal .
If , as she walked , her steps fumbled from time to time , she chose to ignore that omen .
If the slope grew steeper and the groves more dim , she tried not to heed .
Success depended upon maintaining her equanimity ; ;
she must be poised and proud and unafraid in order to prove to the mountain that she was in earnest .
The forest took on an impersonal aspect .
It did not care what sort of person prowled its woods , plucked at its bark or stripped the berries from its bushes .
Unconcerned , indifferent , unmotivated , the forest was simply there -- fighting man's depredations with more abundant growth and man's follies with its own musical evening laughter .
Red man or white man , pacifist or killer , the forest would accept them all -- knowing that it could thrive equally well on slaughter and beneficence ; ;
knowing that its ageless mass would always dwarf the short span of time allotted to any man .
Pamela shook her head .
She must not think about time .
That was another one of those traps .
In her grim pursuit of tranquillity , Pamela focused her thoughts on her husband .
If , when this was all over , she found the words to tell him about it , she wondered if he would ever understand .
How could he comprehend her need when he himself was innocent ? ?
Indian ghosts would not impinge upon his nights , nor would his days be haunted by the dimly-outlined , ill-conceived figure of her benighted ancestor .
His bright , daylight mind would whistle away such images ; ;
they would not dare to face his scoffing .
Pamela was glad Jim was nowhere near .
His presence would have interfered with her duty .
The mountainside grew steeper and she slipped once or twice on the smooth pine needles .
The trees huddled more closely together , their limbs and leaves intertwined in a coarse curtain against the sun .
Bushes and vines abetted the rocks in forming thorny detours for the struggling stranger , and without the direct light of the sun to act as compass , Pamela could no longer be positive of her direction .
Nevertheless , she continued to move upward .
She was sure she would reach the pool by climbing , and she clung to that belief despite the increasing number of obstacles .
The forest had become an alien world where she strove , alone , unprotected , unguided , to deal with whatever hindrances were offered .
It was a bold , dark castle of pine boughs that stood like a medieval fortress , eclipsing the sun and human time .
At one and the same time , she was within it but still searching for the drawbridge that would give her entry .
Silence came into the forest -- a solid being that clapped its hand over the murmuring mouths of the birds and the whispered comfort of the trees .
Silence walked at Pamela's side , its presence numbingly close , yet too far for her to hear .
Silence stood in front of her , waiting , and in back of her , blocking her retreat .
She stumbled over the root of a tree that protruded maliciously above the earth .
In spite of her attempt to preserve her balance , she fell , bruising her arm on a naked stone .
For a moment , she could not catch her breath and then , her breath returning in short , frightened spasms , she lifted herself to her feet laboriously .
She started to brush the dirt and bits of leaves off her clothes .
Her arm bled slightly , and the offended skin cried out in pain .
She looked around .
She was bewildered .
She seemed to have come such a long distance -- too far for her destination which had wilfully been swallowed up in the greedy gloom of the trees .
She stood quite still , trying to focus upon a direction in which to turn , a path to follow , a clue to guide her .
She was standing in a thick grove .
The trees were crowded so closely together that their branches overlapped , virtually shutting out the sun completely .
The earth smelled moist and pungent as it might in a cave deprived of the cleansing effect of the sun's rays .
She had the feeling that , under the mouldering leaves , there would be the bodies of dead animals , quietly decaying and giving their soil back to the mountain .
The thought made Pamela shudder .
A terrible chill swept through the grove .
Not a breeze exactly , but a pocket of icy air that settled with a loathsome familiarity upon the deep confines of the grove , catching Pamela in a leering embrace .
There was a peculiar density about it , a thick substance that could be sensed but never identified , never actually perceived .
Where before had she felt or dreamt or imagined such a scene ? ?
She already knew this unwholesome , chilling atmosphere that was somehow grotesquely alive .
It enclosed her clammy hands and twined around her ankles .
It crept into the open neck of her blouse and slid down her body , seeping into her flesh through all the quivering pores of her skin .
It crawled across her breasts , suffocating the life in her nipples .
It circled her thighs , exploring with its icy tentacles .
It entered her body with the ghastly intimacy of an incubus , and its particles , spreading , creeping , crawling , joined themselves into steel bands that constricted her knees so tightly that they ached ; ;
stifled her lungs so that her breath came in harsh gasps ; ;
clutched her throat and sucked up the moisture in her mouth so that her tongue was dry and hard and stuck to the roof of her mouth and her teeth were clenched together in the rigid fixture of her jaws .
She had to get away from here before this demoniac possession swallowed up the liquid of her eyes and sank into the fibers of her brain , depriving her of reason and sight .
But she did not know which way to go .
The shadows of the trees engulfed her , foreclosing every possible exit from the grove .
She had been snared here by a vile sensuality that writhed around her throat in ever-tightening circles .
She could not scream , for even if a sound could take shape within her parched mouth , who would hear , who would listen ? ?
Does the mountain listen ? ?
Pamela groped blindly .
She had to escape .
She had to move in some direction -- any direction that would take her away from this evil place .
She thrust forward through the shadows and the trees that resisted her and tried to fling her back .
Her own body protested , aching painfully where the blood in her veins had congealed , where cold demon wisps still clung and caressed .
Every movement she made seemed unnecessarily noisy .
Twigs cracked loudly under her feet ; ;
bushes swished and scratched at her slacks ; ;
tree branches snapped as she pushed them ruthlessly away from her .
Miraculously , she found exactly the right statement .
She began it deliberately , so that none of her words would be lost on him .
`` I want to tell you something Thomas DeMontez Lord .
I'm well aware that you've got a pedigree as long as my leg , and that I don't amount to anything .
But '' --
`` But it don't matter a-tall '' , Lord supplied fondly .
`` To me you'll always be the girl o' my dreams , an' the sweetest flower that grows '' .
Beaming idiotically , he pooched out his lips and attempted to kiss her .
She yanked away from him furiously .
`` You shut up ! !
Shu-tt up-pp ! !
I've got something to say to you , and by God you're going to listen .
Do you hear me ? ?
You're going to listen '' ! !
Lord nodded agreeably .
He said he wanted very much to listen .
He knew that anything a brainy little lady like her had to say would be plumb important , as well as pleasin' to the ear , and he didn't want to miss a word of it .
So would she mind speaking a little louder ? ?
`` I think you stink , Tom Lord ! !
I think you're mean and hateful and stupid , and -- louder '' ? ?
Said Joyce .
`` Uh-huh .
So I can hear you while I'm checkin' the car .
Looks like we might be in for a speck of trouble '' .
He opened the door and got out .
He waited at the car side for a moment , looking down at her expectantly .
`` Well ? ?
Wasn't you goin' to say somethin' '' ? ?
Then , helpfully , as she merely stared at him in weary silence , `` Maybe you could write it down for me , huh ? ?
Print it in real big letters , an' I can cipher it out later '' .
`` Aah , go on '' , she said .
`` Just go the hell on '' .
He grinned , nodded , and walked around to the front of the car .
Lips pursed mournfully , he stared down at its crazily sagging left side .
Then he hunkered down on the heels of his handmade boots , peered into the orderly chaos of axle , shock absorber , and spring .
He went prone on his stomach , the better to pursue his examination .
After a time , he straightened again , brushing the red Permian dust from his hands , slapping it from his six-dollar levis and his tailored , twenty-five-dollar shirt .
He wore no gun -- a strange ommission for a peace officer in this country .
Never , he'd once told Joyce , had he encountered any man or situation that called for a gun .
And he really feels that way , she thought .
That's really all he's got , all he is .
Just a big pile of self-confidence in an almost teensy package .
If I could make myself feel the same way
She studied him hopefully , yearningly ; ;
against the limitless background of sky and wasteland it was easy to confirm her analysis .
Here in the God-forsaken place , the westerly end of nowhere , Tom Lord looked almost insignificant , almost contemptible .
He was handsome , with his coal-black hair and eyes , his fine-chiseled features .
But she'd known plenty of handsomer guys , and , conceding his good looks , what was there left ? ?
He wasn't a big man ; ;
rather on the medium side .
Neither was he very powerful of build .
He could move very quickly , she knew ( although he seldom found occasion to do so ) , but he was more wiry than truly strong .
And his relatively small hands and feet gave him an almost delicate appearance .
Just nothing , she told herself .
Just so darned sure of himself that he puts the Indian sign on everyone .
But , by gosh , I want him and I'm going to have him ! !
He caught her eye , came back around the car with the boot-wearer ; ;
teetering , half-mincing walk .
Why did these yokels still wear boots , anyway , when most had scarcely sat a horse in years ? ?
He slid in at her side , tucked a cigar into his mouth , and politely proffered one to her .
`` Oh , cut it out , Tom '' ! !
She snapped .
`` Can't you stop that stupid clowning for even a minute '' ? ?
`` This ain't your brand , maybe '' , Lord suggested .
`` Or maybe you just don't feel like a cigar '' ? ?
`` I feel like getting back to town , that's what I feel like ! !
Now , are you going to take me or am I supposed to walk '' ? ?
`` Might get there faster walkin' '' , Lord drawled , `` seein' as how I got a busted front spring .
On the other hand , howsomever , maybe you wouldn't either .
I figger it's probl'y a sixty-five-mile walk , and I c'n maybe get this spring patched up in a couple of hours '' .
`` How -- with what ? ?
There's nothing out here but rattlesnakes '' .
`` Now , ain't it the truth '' ? ?
Lord laughed with secret amusement .
`` Not a danged thing but rattlesnakes , so I reckon I'll get the boss rattler to help me '' .
`` Tom ! !
For God's sake '' ! !
`` Looky '' .
He pointed , cutting her off .
`` See that wildcat '' ? ?
She saw it then , the distant derrick of the wildcat -- a test well in unexplored country .
And even with her limited knowledge of such things , she knew that the car could be repaired there ; ;
sufficiently , at least , to get them back into town .
A wildcatter had to be prepared for almost any emergency .
He had to depend on himself , since he was invariably miles and hours away from others .
`` Well , let's get going '' , she said impatiently .
`` I '' -- She broke off , frowning .
`` What did you mean by that rattlesnake gag ? ?
Getting the boss rattlesnake to help you '' ? ?
`` Why , I meant what I said '' , Lord declared .
`` What else would I mean , anyways '' ? ?
She looked at him , lips compressed .
Then , with a shrug of pretended indifference , she took a compact from her purse and went through the motions of fixing her make-up .
In his mood , it was the best way to handle him ; ;
that is , to show no curiosity whatsoever .
Otherwise , she would be baited into a tantrum -- teased and provoked until she lost control of herself , and thus lost still another battle in the maddening struggle of Tom Lord Vs. Joyce Lakewood .
The car lurched along at a snail's crawl , the left-front mudguard banging and scraping against the tire , occasionally scraping against the road itself .
Lord whistled tunelessly as he fought the steering wheel .
He seemed very pleased with himself , as though some intricate scheme was working out exactly as he had planned .
Along with this self-satisfaction , however , Joyce sensed a growing tension .
It poured out of him like an electric current , a feeling that the muscles and nerves of his fine-drawn body were coiling for action , and that that action would be all that he anticipated .
Joyce had seen him like this once before -- more than once , actually , but on one particularly memorable occasion .
That was the day that he had practically mopped up the main street of Big Sands with Aaron McBride , field boss for the Highlands Oil & Gas Company .
Tom had been laying for Aaron McBride for a long time , just waiting to catch him out of line .
McBride gave him his opportunity when he showed up in town with a pistol on his hip .
He had a legitimate reason for wearing it .
It was payday for Highlands , and he was packing a lot of money back into the oil fields .
Moreover , as long as the weapon was carried openly , the sheriff's office had made no previous issue of it .
`` So what's this all about '' ? ?
He demanded , when Lord confronted him .
I'm not the only man in town with a gun , or the only one without a permit '' .
It was the wrong thing to say .
By failing to do as he was told instantly -- to take out a permit or return the gun to his car -- he had played into Lord's hands .
The trouble was that he had virtually had to protest .
The deputy had forced him to by his manner of accosting him .
So , `` How about it '' ? ?
He said .
`` Why single me out on this permit deal '' ? ?
`` Well , I'll tell you about that '' , Lord told him .
`` We aim t' be see-lective , y'know ? ?
Don't like to bother no one unless we have to , which I figger we do , in your case .
Figger we got to be plumb careful with any of you Highlands big shots '' .
McBride reddened .
He himself had heard that there was gangster money in the company , but that had nothing to do with him .
He was an honest man doing a hard job , and the implication that he was anything else was unbearable .
`` Look , Lord '' , he said hoarsely .
`` I know you've got a grudge against me , and maybe I can't blame you .
You think that Highlands swindled you and I helped 'em do it .
But you're all wrong , man ! !
I'm no lawyer .
I just do what I'm told , and '' --
`` uh-huh .
An' that could mean trouble with a fella that's workin' for crooks .
So you get rid of that pistol right now , Mis-ter McBride .
You do that or take you out a permit right now '' .
McBride couldn't do either , of course .
Not immediately , as the deputy demanded .
Not without a face-saving respite of at least a few minutes .
To do so would make his job well-nigh impossible .
Oil-field workers were a rough-tough lot .
How could he exert authority over them -- make them toe the line , as he had to -- if he knuckled under to this small-town clown ? ?
`` I'll get around to it a little later '' , he mumbled desperately .
`` Just as soon as I go to the bank , and '' --
`` huh-uh .
Now , Mis-ter McBride '' , said Lord , and he laid a firmly restraining hand on the field boss's arm .
It was strictly the deputy's game , but McBride had gone too far to throw in .
Now , he could only play the last card in what was probably the world's coldest deck .
He flung off Lord's hand and attempted to push past him , inadvertently shoving him into a storefront .
It was practically the last move that McBride made of his own volition .
Lord slugged him in the stomach , so hard that the organ almost pressed against his spine .
Then , as he doubled , gasping , vomiting the breakfast he had so lately eaten , Lord straightened him with an uppercut .
A rabbit punch redoubled him .
And then there was a numbing blow to the heart , and another gut-flattening blow to the stomach
But he couldn't keep up with them .
No more could he defend himself against them .
He seemed to be fighting not one man but a dozen .
And he could no longer think of face-saving , of honor , but only of escape .
Why , he's going to kill me , he thought wildly .
I meant him no harm .
I've given willful hurt to no man .
I was just doing my job , just following orders , and for that he's going to kill me .
Beat me to death in front of a hundred people .
Somehow more terrible than the certainty that he was about to die was the knowledge that Lord would probably not suffer for it : the murder would go unpunished .
He , McBride , would be cited as in the wrong , and he , Lord , would go scot-free , an officer who had only done his duty , though perhaps too energetically .
McBride staggered into the street , flopped sprawling in the stinging dust .
Fear-maddened , fleeing the lengthening shadow of death , he scrambled to his feet again .
He couldn't see ; ;
he was long past the point of coherent thinking .
Dimly , he heard laughter , hoots of derision , but he could not read the racket properly .
He could not grasp that Lord had withdrawn from the fight minutes ago , and that his leaden arms were flailing at nothing but the air .
He hated them too much to understand -- the people of this isolated law-unto-itself world that was Lord's world .
This , he was sure , was the way they would act ; ;
laughing at a dying man , laughing as a man was beaten to death .
And nothing would be done about it .
Nothing unless
Donna ! !
Donna , his young wife , the girl who was both daughter and wife to him .
Donna was like he was .
She lived by the rules , never compromising , never blinded or diverted by circumstance .
And Donna would --
When he regained consciousness he was in Lord's house , in the office of Doctor Lord , the deputy's deceased father .
The Brannon outfit -- known as the Slash-B because of its brand -- reached Hondo Creek before sundown .
The herd was watered and then thrown onto a broad grass flat which was to be the first night's bedground .
Two of the new hands , a Mexican named Jose Amado and a kid known only as Laredo , were picked for the first trick of riding night herd .
The rest of the crew offsaddled their mounts and turned them into the remuda .
They got tin cups of coffee from the big pot on the coosie's fire , rolled and lighted brown-paper cigarettes , lounged about .
There was some idle talk , a listless discussion of this or that small happening during the day's drive .
But they deliberately avoided the one subject that had them all curious : the failure of the boss's wife and son to join the outfit .
It especially bothered the older hands .
The cook , Mateo Garcia , had arrived there long before the herd .
He'd started a fire and put coffee on , and now was busy at the work board of his chuck wagon .
He was readying a batch of sourdough biscuits for the Dutch oven .
Supper would be ready within the hour .
The Maguire family was setting up a separate camp nearby .
Billie had unhitched the mules from both Tom Brannon's and his father's wagon .
Hank had gathered wood for a cookfire , and his wife was busy at it now .
Conchita kept an eye on the twins and little Elena , trying to keep them from falling into the creek by which they persisted in playing .
Conchita nagged at the younger children , attempting without success to keep her thoughts off Tom Brannon .
Tom Brannon had caught up with the outfit shortly after the Maguires joined it , which had been at midday .
He'd come alone , without his wife and child .
He'd been in an angry mood : Conchita had thought his face almost ugly with the anger in him .
She wondered what had taken place in town , between him and his wife .
She wished that she could talk to her mother about it .
Not that her mother knew what had happened , but they could speculate upon it .
But her mother would rebuke her if she mentioned it , and say that it was none of her concern .
`` Pat , get out of that creek ! !
You too , Sean ! !
Elena , you'll get mud all over your dress '' ! !
Even as she called to the children , Conchita let her gaze seek Tom Brannon .
Tomas , she called him -- as the Mexican hands did .
He was in earnest conversation with her father and the old vaquero , Luis Hernandez .
Whatever they are talking about ? ?
Conchita wondered .
It bothered her that she probably would never know .
Certainly , she wouldn't dare ask her father afterward .
He would tell her not to pry into grownups' affairs -- as though she were a little kid like Elena ! !
At the moment , the three men were not saying much of anything .
They were sitting on their heels , rider-fashion , over by the still empty calf wagon .
Brannon was hunkered down with his broad back to the left rear wheel , with the other two facing him .
He held a cigarette in his right hand .
It was burning away , forgotten .
His face was clouded with unhappiness .
He'd told Hank Maguire and Luis Hernandez about his wife's refusal to come with him and about what he now intended to do .
They were considering it gravely , neither seeming to like what he planned .
Finally Hernandez said , `` I could offer you advice , Tomas , but you wouldn't heed it '' .
`` Let's hear it , anyway '' .
`` Wait a little while .
Let Senora Brannon live in her father's house for a time .
Give her time to miss you .
Maybe she will then come to you .
After all , you want the senora as much as you want the boy .
You need her even more than you need him '' .
`` She won't change her mind '' , Brannon said .
`` John Clayton will see to that '' .
`` But after a time away from you .
''
`` A year , Luis ? ?
Five ? ?
Ten ? ?
How long should I wait '' ? ?
`` Maybe in a year , Tomas .
''
`` In a year she'll like living in Clayton's house too much to come back to me '' , Brannon said flatly .
`` And the boy will be too much under his influence by then .
I've got to take Danny away from Clayton before I lose him altogether .
Hell , in a year or five or ten , the boy will have forgotten me -- his own father '' ! !
`` But to take him and leave his mother behind is not good '' .
`` In my place , you'd follow such advice as you give me '' ? ?
Hernandez looked suddenly uncertain .
`` That I can't answer , for I can't imagine something like this happening to me .
Maybe I should withdraw my advice -- no '' ? ?
Brannon looked at Hank Maguire .
`` And you ? ?
What would you do in my place '' ? ?
Hank shook his head .
`` I don't know , Tom .
Like Luis , I can't see something like this happening to me .
With Maria and me , there's never any problem .
Where I go , she goes -- and the kids with us .
You're going to need your woman .
And the boy will need his mother .
If you take the one , you'd better take both '' .
Brannon shook his head .
`` I won't force Beth to come against her will .
But I'm going to have my son '' .
They were silent for a little while , each looking glum .
Finally Luis Hernandez said , `` What must be , must be .
I am with you , of course , Tomas '' .
And Hank Maguire added , `` So am I , Tom '' .
`` All right '' , Brannon said , rising .
`` We'll ride out as soon as we've had chuck '' .
Brannon timed it so that they rode in an hour after nightfall .
They had for cover both darkness and a summer storm .
During much of the fifteen-mile ride they had watched a lurid display of lightning in the sky to the east .
Later , they'd heard the rumble of thunder and then , just outside Rockfork , they ran into rain .
Those who had slickers donned them .
The others put on old coats or ducking jackets , whichever they carried behind their saddle cantles .
There were seven of them , enough for a show of strength -- to run a bluff .
It was to be nothing more than that .
There was to be no gunplay .
If the bluff failed and they ran into trouble , Brannon had told the others , they would withdraw -- and he would come after his son another time .
He didn't want to put himself outside the law .
With him were Hank Maguire , Luis Hernandez , and Luis's son Pedro .
The Ramirez brothers were also along .
The seventh man was Red Hogan , a wiry little puncher with a wild streak and a liking for hell-raising .
They were all good men .
It was dark early , because of the storm .
Also because of the storm , the streets of Rockfork were deserted .
Lighted windows glowed jewel-bright through the downpour .
They reined in before the town marshal's office , a box-sized building on Main Street .
A lamp burned inside , but Brannon , peering through the window , saw that the office was empty .
He'd hoped to catch Jesse Macklin there .
`` Probably just stepped out '' , he said .
`` Maybe to have supper .
Red , come along .
The rest of you wait here '' .
With Red Hogan , he rode to the Welcome Cafe .
Hogan got down from the saddle and had a look inside .
`` Not there '' , he said , getting back onto his horse .
`` Maybe he's at the hotel '' .
They rode to the Rockfork House , a little farther along the opposite side of the street .
They reined in there , Brannon remaining in the saddle while Hogan went to look for Jesse Macklin in the hotel dining room .
Brannon had no slicker .
He'd put on his old brown corduroy coat and it was already soaked .
But he felt no physical discomfort .
He was only vaguely aware of the sluicing rain .
He hardly noticed the blue-green flashes of lightning and the hard claps of thunder .
Hogan reappeared , stopped on the hotel porch , lifted a hand in signal .
Brannon dismounted and climbed the steps .
`` He's finished eating '' , Hogan said .
`` Sitting with a cup of coffee now .
It shouldn't be long '' .
It seemed long , at least to Tom Brannon .
He and Hogan waited by the door , one to either side .
Macklin was the third man to come out , and he came unhurriedly .
He was puffing on a cigar , and he was turning up his coat collar against the rain .
It was not until he moved across the porch that he became aware of them , and then it was too late .
They closed in fast , kept him from reaching inside his coat for his gun .
`` Just come along '' , Brannon told him .
`` Don't start anything you can't finish '' .
`` Now , listen '' -- Macklin began .
`` We'll talk over at your office '' .
`` Brannon , I warn you '' ! !
`` Let's go , Marshal '' , Brannon said , and took him by the arm .
Hogan gripped the lawman's other arm .
They escorted him down from the porch and through the rain to his office .
The other five Slash-B men followed them inside , crowding the small room .
His face was stiff with anger when they let go of his arms .
He looked at each of them in turn , Brannon last of all .
`` I'll remember you '' , he said .
`` Every last one of you .
As for you , Brannon '' --
`` Put your gun on the desk , Marshal '' .
`` Now , hold on , damn it ; ;
I won't '' --
Red Hogan's patience ran out .
He lifted the skirt of Macklin's coat , took his gun from its holster , tossed it onto the desk .
`` Too much fooling around '' , he said .
`` Don't press your luck , badge-toter '' .
Brannon said , `` Now the key to the lockup , Marshal '' .
`` Key '' ? ?
Macklin said .
`` What for '' ? ?
`` Can't you guess '' ? ?
Brannon said .
`` We're putting you where you won't come to harm .
Come on -- the key .
Get it out '' ! !
`` Damned if I will .
Brannon , you've assaulted a law officer and '' --
They moved in on him , crowded him from all sides .
No man laid a hand on him , but the threat of violence was there .
His face took on a sudden pallor , became beaded with sweat , and he seemed to have trouble with his breathing .
He held out a moment longer , then his nerve gave under the pressure .
He swore , and said , `` All right .
It's here in my pocket '' .
`` Get it out '' , Brannon ordered .
Then , as Macklin obeyed : `` Now let's go out back '' .
Resignedly , Macklin turned to the back door .
They followed him into the rain and across to the squat stone building fifty feet to the rear .
The door of the lockup was of oak planks and banded with strap iron .
It was secured by an oversized padlock .
Macklin balked again , not wanting to unlock and open the door .
They crowded him in that threatening way once more , forced him to give in .
Once the door was open , they crowded him inside the dark building .
He was uttering threats in a low but savage voice when they closed and padlocked the door .
They returned to the street , mounted their horses , rode through the rain to the big house on Houston Street .
Its windows glowed with lamplight .
Deputy Marshal Luke Harper still stood guard on the veranda , a forlorn , scarecrowish figure in the murky dark .
He came to the edge of the veranda , peered down at them with his hand on his gun .
`` Don't try it '' , Brannon told him , dismounting and starting up the steps with his men following .
`` Don't get yourself killed for something that doesn't concern you '' .
He strode past the now frightened man , entered the house .
Miguel and Arturo Ramirez remained on the veranda to keep Harper from interfering .
The others followed Brannon inside .
They trailed him across the wide hallway to the parlor , four roughly garbed and tough-looking men who probably had never before ventured into such a house .
They brought to it all the odors that clung to men like themselves , that of their own sweat , of campfire smoke , of horses and cattle .
They tracked mud on the oaken floor , on the carpet .
Their presence fouled the elegance of that room .
And their arrival caught John Clayton and Charles Ansley off guard .
The author of the anonymous notes seemed to be all-knowing .
For men who had left cattle alone after getting their first notices had received no second .
But the day of the deadline came and passed , and the men who had scoffed at the warnings laughed with satisfaction .
For , with a single exception , nothing had happened to them .
The exception was an Iron Mountain settler named William Lewis .
After walking out to his corral that morning , he'd been amazed to see the dust puff up in front of his feet .
A split second later , the distant crack of a rifle had sounded .
He'd mounted up immediately and raced with a revolver ready toward the spot from which he'd estimated the shot had come .
But he had found all of the thickets and points of cover deserted .
There had been no sign of a rifleman and no track or trace to show that anyone had been near .
Lewis was a man who had made a full-time job of cow stealing .
He hadn't even pretended to be farming his spread .
His land had never been plowed .
He had done his rustling openly and boasted about it .
He had received both first and second anonymous notices , and each time he had accused his neighbors of writing them .
He had cursed at them and threatened them .
He was a man , those neighbors testified later , who didn't have a friend in the world .
William Lewis made the rounds of all who lived near him again , that August morning after a bullet landed at his feet , and once more he accused and threatened everyone .
`` I'll be ready next time '' ! !
He raged .
`` I'll be shootin' right back '' .
He had his chance the very next morning , for exactly the same thing happened again .
This time Lewis had his own rifle in his hands , and he threw some answering fire back at the mysterious far-off shot , then spent most of the day searching out the area .
He found nothing , but he still refused to give up and move out .
`` Just let me meet up with that damned bushwhackin' coward face-to-face '' ! !
He exploded .
`` That's all I ask '' ! !
He never got that chance .
For the unseen , ghostlike rifleman aimed a little higher the third time .
A bullet smashed directly into the center of William Lewis' chest .
He slumped against a log fence rail , then tried to lift himself .
Two more shots followed in quick succession , dropping him limp and huddled on the ground .
An inquest was held , and after a good deal of testimony about the anonymous notes , the county coroner estimated that the shooting had been done from a distance of 300 yards .
Rumors of the offer Tom Horn had made at the Stockgrowers' Association meeting had leaked out by then , and as a grand jury investigation of the murder got underway , the prosecuting attorney , a Colonel Baird , ordered that the tall stock detective be summoned for questioning .
It took some time to locate Horn .
He was finally found in the Bates Hole region of Natrona County , two counties away .
Prosecutor Baird immediately assumed he was hiding out there after the shooting and began preparing an indictment .
But that indictment was never made .
For Tom Horn , it turned out , had a number of rancher and cowboy witnesses ready and willing to swear with straight faces that he had been in Bates Hole the day of the killing .
The former scout's alibi couldn't be shaken .
The authorities had to release him .
He immediately rode on to Cheyenne , threw a ten-day drinking spree and dropped some very strong hints among friends .
`` Dead center at three hundred yards , that coroner said '' ! !
He'd grin .
`` Three shots in that fella 'fore he hit the ground ! !
You reckon there's two men in this state can shoot like that '' ? ?
Publicly , he denied everything .
Privately , he created and magnified an image of himself as a hired assassin .
For a blood-chilling ring of terror to the very sound of his name was the tool he needed for the job he'd promised to do .
Tom Horn was soon back at work , giving his secret employers their money's worth .
A good many beef-hungry settlers were accepting the death of William Lewis as proof that the warning notes were not idle threats .
The company herds were being raided less often , and cabins and soddies all over the range were standing deserted .
But there were other homesteaders who passed the Lewis murder off as a personal grudge killing , the work of one of his neighbors .
The rustling problem was by no means solved .
Even in the very area where the shooting had been done , cattle were still disappearing .
For less than a dozen miles from the unplowed land of the dead man lived another settler who had ignored the warnings that his existence might be foreclosed on -- a blatant and defiant rustler named Fred Powell .
`` Fred was mighty crude about the way he took in cattle '' his own hired man , Andy Ross , mentioned later .
`` Everyone knew it , but he sort of acted like he didn't care who knew it -- even after them notes came , even after he'd heard about Lewis , even after he'd been shot at a couple o' times hisself '' ! !
On the morning of September 10 , 1895 , Powell and Ross rose at dawn and began their day's work .
Haying time was close at hand , and they needed some strong branches to repair a hay rack .
Harnessing a team to a buckboard , they drove out to a willow-lined creek about a half-mile off , then climbed down and began chopping .
Andy Ross had just started swinging an ax at his second willow when the distant blast of a rifle sounded .
He looked around in surprise , then noticed that Fred Powell was clutching his chest .
The hired man ran over to help his boss .
`` My God , I'm shot '' ! !
Powell gasped .
And he collapsed and died instantly .
Ross had no intention of searching for the assassin .
He heaved the dead man onto the buckboard , yelled and lashed at the team and got out of there fast .
But he brought back the sheriff and several deputies , and to the lawmen the entire affair seemed a repetition of the Lewis killing .
A detailed scouring of the entire area revealed nothing beyond a ledge of rocks that might have been the rifleman's hiding place .
There were no tracks of either hoofs or boots .
Not even an empty cartridge case could be found .
Once again , Tom Horn was the first and most likely suspect , and he was brought in for questioning immediately .
Once again , he shook his head , kept his face expressionless and his voice very calm , and had a strongly supported alibi ready .
Later , riding in for some lusty enjoyment of the liquor and professional ladies of Cheyenne , he laid claim to the killing with the vague insinuations he made .
`` Exterminatin' cow thieves is just a business proposition with me '' , he'd blandly announce .
`` And I sort o' got a corner on the market '' .
`` Tom '' , a friend asked him once , `` how come you bushwhacked them rustlers ? ?
They wouldn't o' stood no chance with you in a plain , straight-out shoot-down '' .
He had lots of friends , then as always .
Even as he became widely known as a professional killer , nearly every cowboy and rancher in Wyoming seemed proud to call him a friend .
No man's name brought more cheers when it was announced in a rodeo .
`` Well '' , he explained , `` s'posin' you was a nester swingin' the long rope ? ?
Which would you be most scairt of -- a dry-gulchin' or a shoot-down '' ? ?
`` Yeah , I can see that '' , the friend was forced to agree .
`` But well , it just don't seem sportin' somehow '' ! !
`` Sportin' '' ! !
The tall sunburnt rustler-hunter stared in amazement .
`` Sportin' '' ! !
He echoed again in soft wonder .
`` I seen a lot o' things in my time .
I found a trooper once the Apache had spread-eagled on an ant hill , and another time we ran across some teamsters they'd caught , tied upside down on their own wagon wheels over little fires until their brains was exploded right out o' their skulls .
I heard o' Texas cattlemen wrappin' a cow thief up in green hides and lettin' the sun shrink 'em and squeeze him to death .
But there's one thing I never seen or heard of , one thing I just don't think there is , and that's a sportin' way o' killin' a man '' ! !
After the first two murders , the warning notes were rarely ignored .
The lesson had been learned .
The examples were plain .
When Fred Powell's brother-in-law , Charlie Keane , moved into the dead man's home , the anonymous letter writer took no chances on Charlie taking up where Fred had left off and wasted no time on a first notice :
If you don't leave this country within 3 days , your life will be taken the same as Powell's was .
This was the message found tacked to the cabin door .
Keane left , within three days .
All through Albany and Laramie counties , other men were doing the same .
Houses of settlers who'd treated the company herds as a natural resource , free for the taking , were sitting empty , with weeds growing high in their yards .
The small half-heartedly tended fields of men who'd spent more time rustling cattle than farming were lying fallow .
No cow thief could count on a jury of his sympathetic peers to free him any longer .
Jury , judge and executioner were riding the range in the form of a single unknown figure that could materialize anywhere , at any time , to dispense an ancient brand of justice the men of the new West had believed long outdated .
For three straight years , Tom Horn patrolled the southern Wyoming pastures , and how many men he killed after Lewis and Powell ( if he killed Lewis and Powell ) will never be known .
It is possible , although highly doubtful , that he killed none at all but merely let his reputation work for him by privately claiming every unsolved murder in the state .
It is also possible , but equally doubtful , that he actually shot down the hundreds of men with which his legend credits him .
For that legend was growing explosively , Rumor was insisting he received a price of $600 a man .
( The best evidence is that he received a monthly wage of about $125 , very good money in an era when top hands worked for $30 and found .
) Rumor had it he slipped two small rocks under each victim's head as a sort of trademark .
( A detailed search of old coroner's reports fails to substantiate this in the slightest .
)
One thing was certain -- his method was effective , so effective that after a time even the warning notices were often unnecessary .
The mere fact that the tall figure with the rifle and field glasses had been seen riding that way was enough to frighten three rustling homesteaders out of the Upper Laramie country in a single week .
`` My reputation's my stock in trade '' , Tom mentioned more than once .
He evidently couldn't foresee that it might be his downfall in the end .
He had made himself the personification of the Devil to the homesteaders .
But to the cattlemen who had been facing bankruptcy from rustling losses and to the cowboys who had been faced with lay-offs a few years earlier , he was becoming a vastly different type of legendary figure .
Such ranchers as Coble and Clay and the Bosler brothers carried him on their books as a cowhand even while he was receiving a much larger salary from parties unknown .
He made their spreads his headquarters , and he helped out in their roundups .
In the cow camps , Tom Horn was regarded as a hero , as the same kind of champion he was when he entered and invariably won the local rodeos .
The hands and their bosses saw him as a lone knight of the range , waging a dedicated crusade against a lawless new society that was threatening a beloved way of life .
The wailing , guitar-strumming minstrels of the cattle kingdom made up songs about him .
By 1898 , rustling losses had been driven down to the lowest level ever seen in Wyoming .
When several minutes had passed and Curt hadn't emerged from the livery stable , Brenner reentered the hotel and faced Summers across the counter .
`` I have a little job for you , Charlie .
I'm sure you won't mind doing me a small favor '' .
Brenner's voice was oily , but Summers wasn't fooled .
He moistened his lips uneasily .
`` What is it you want me to do , Mr. Brenner '' ? ?
Brenner shrugged carelessly .
`` It's very simple .
I just want you to take a message to Diane Molinari .
Tell her to come here to the hotel '' .
Vastly relieved , Summers nodded and started toward the door .
`` One thing , Summers '' , Brenner said .
`` You're not to mention my name .
Tell her Curt Adams wants to see her '' .
Summers pulled up short , and turned around .
`` I don't know , Mr. Brenner '' , he said haltingly , beginning to get an inkling of Brenner's plans .
`` It doesn't seem quite right , telling her a thing like that .
Couldn't I just '' -- His voice trailed off into silence .
Brenner continued to smile , but his eyes were cold .
He turned and looked around at the lobby as though seeing things he hadn't before noticed .
`` You know , Summers '' , he said thoughtfully .
`` Eagle's Nest ought to have a fire company .
If someone were to drop a match in here , this place would go up like a haystack '' .
He started toward the stairway , then turned to add , `` Tell her to come to Adams's room , that Adams is in trouble .
Tell her to hurry '' .
`` Yes sir '' .
His face pale , Summers headed for the street .
Curt's visit to the livery stable had been merely a precaution in case anyone should be watching .
He paused only long enough to ascertain that Jess's buckskin was still missing and that his own gray was all right , then climbed through a back window and dropped to the ground outside .
The fact that Jess's horse had not been returned to its stall could indicate that Diane's information had been wrong , but Curt didn't interpret it this way .
A man like Jess would want to have a ready means of escape in case it was needed .
Probably his horse would be close to where he was hiding .
From the back of the barn it was a simple matter to reach Black's house without using the street .
Curt approached the place cautiously , and watched it several minutes from the protection of a grove of trees .
There was a light in Black's front room , but drawn curtains prevented any view of the interior .
Curt circled the house and located a barn out back .
He could hear horses moving around inside , and nothing else .
There was no lock on the door , only an iron hook which he unfastened .
He opened the door and went in , pulling it shut behind him .
Again he stood in the darkness listening , but there was only the scrape of a shod hoof on a plank floor .
He moved ahead carefully , his left hand in front of him , and came to a wooden partition .
Horse smell was very strong , and he could hear the crunch of grain being ground between strong jaws .
He found a match in his pocket and lit it .
There were two horses in the barn , a sway-backed dun and Jess Crouch's buckskin .
Curt snuffed out the match .
It was certain now that Jess was in the house , but also , presumably , was Stacey Black .
Curt wanted to get Jess alone , without interference from anyone , even as spineless a person as the store owner .
He studied the problem for a few seconds and thought of a means by which it might be solved .
Reaching across the side of the stall , he slapped the buckskin on the rump .
The startled animal let out a terrified squeal and thrashed around in the stall .
As Curt had hoped , the house door banged open .
He slapped the buckskin again and it kicked wildly , its hoofs rattling the side of the stall .
Curt moved over beside the door and waited .
Presently he heard footsteps crossing the yard , and Jess's smothered curses .
The door swung open , and Jess said sourly , `` What the hell's the matter with you ? ?
''
The horse continued to snort .
Curt doubted that any animal belonging to Jess would find much reassurance in its owner's voice .
Jess cursed again , and entered the barn .
A match flared , and he reached above his head to light a lantern which hung from a wire loop .
As he crossed to the side of the stall , Curt drew his gun and clicked back the hammer .
`` Before you try anything '' , he said .
`` Remember what happened to Gruller '' .
Jess caught his breath in surprise .
He started to reach for his gun , but apparently thought better of it .
`` That's the stuff '' , Curt said .
`` Just hold it that way '' .
He reached out to pull the door shut and fasten it with a sliding bolt .
`` You and I have a little talking to do , Jess .
You won't be needing this '' .
He moved up and lifted Jess's pistol out of its holster .
`` Damn you , Adams '' -- Jess was beginning to recover from his initial shock .
`` We ain't got nothing to talk about .
If I don't come back in the house , Breed's going to '' --
`` Your trigger-happy brother isn't in the house .
About now he's probably having supper .
That long ride the four of you took must've given him a good appetite .
Now turn around so I can see your face '' .
Jess turned .
There was raw fury in his eyes , and the veins of his neck were swollen .
`` You're about as dumb as they come , Adams .
I don't know what you're up to , but when Brenner '' --
`` You can forget about Brenner , too '' , Curt said .
`` It's Ben Arbuckle we're going to talk about '' .
`` Arbuckle '' ? ?
Jess stiffened .
`` I don't know nothin' about him '' .
`` No ? ?
I suppose you don't know anything about a piece of two-by-four , either ; ;
one with blood all over it , Arbuckle's blood '' .
Curt's fingers put a little more pressure on the trigger of his gun .
`` So help me , Crouch , I'd like to kill you where you stand , but , before I do , I'm going to hear you admit killing him .
Now start talking .
Who told you to do it ? ?
Was it Dutch Brenner '' ? ?
Curt was holding Jess's gun in his left hand .
He drew back his arm to slash the gunbarrel across Jess's face , but didn't finish the motion .
Pistol-whipping an unarmed man might come easy to someone like Jess , but Curt couldn't bring himself to do it .
Apparently sensing this , and realizing that it gave him an advantage , Jess became bold .
`` Having all the guns makes you a big man , don't it , Adams ? ?
If we was both armed , you wouldn't talk so tough '' .
`` No '' ? ?
Curt reached out and dropped Jess's pistol back into the holster .
He retreated a step and holstered his own .
`` All right , Crouch ; ;
we're on even terms .
Now draw '' ! !
Sweat bubbled out on Jess's swarthy face .
The fingers of his right hand twisted into a claw , but he didn't reach for the gun .
Curt , angry enough to be a little reckless , raised his hands shoulder high .
`` Does this make it any easier , coward '' ? ?
`` I ain't drawin' against you '' , Jess said thickly .
`` I heard how you outdrew Chico .
I ain't a gunslinger '' .
`` No .
You're the kind of bastard who sneaks up on a man from behind and hits him with a club .
I just wanted to hear you say so '' .
Jess stared at him without answering and let his hands fall to his sides .
He had found Curt's weakness , or what to Jess was a weakness , and was smart enough to take advantage of it .
Somewhere in the distance , a woman screamed .
Curt was too involved in his own problems to pay much attention .
He had to make Jess talk , and he had to do it before Stacey Black got curious and came to investigate .
Once more he lifted Jess's gun from its holster , only this time he tossed it into the stall with the frightened buckskin .
He dropped his own beside it .
`` We'll do it another way , then '' , he said harshly .
Jess's coarse features twisted in a surprised grin which was smashed out of shape by Curt's fist .
With a roar of pain and fury Jess made his attack .
Curt managed to duck beneath the man's flailing fist , and drove home a solid left to Jess's mid-section .
It was like hitting a sack of salt .
Pain shot up Curt's arm clear to the shoulder , but Jess seemed hardly aware that he had been hit .
He slammed into the wall , bounced back , and caught Curt with a roundhouse right which sent him spinning .
An inch lower and it would have knocked him out .
As it was , his vision blurred and for a moment he was unable to move .
When his eyes began to focus , he saw Jess charging at him with a pitchfork .
Curt twisted to one side , and the tines of the fork bit into the floor .
Jess wasted a few seconds trying to yank them loose .
It gave Curt time to stagger to his feet .
The tines broke off under Jess's twisting , and he swung the handle in an attempt to knock Curt's brains out .
His aim was hurried ; ;
so the pitchfork whistled over Curt's head .
By now Curt was seeing clearly again .
He stepped inside Jess's guard and landed two blows to the big man's belly , putting everything he had behind them .
They made Jess double over .
When his head came down , Curt grabbed him by the hair and catapulted him head first into the wall .
The building shook , setting the lantern to swaying , and the buckskin to pitching again .
Even Black's old crowbait began to snort , and from the house Black yelled , `` Jess ! !
What's going on out there '' ? ?
Jess didn't seem too sure himself .
He lurched drunkenly to his feet , lowered his head , and took one step away from the wall .
Curt caught him flush on the nose with a blow which started at the floor .
Jess had had enough .
Blood gushed from his nose , and he backed off as rapidly as he could , stumbling over his own feet in his frantic haste to get away from Curt's fists .
Curt was in almost as bad shape , but he wouldn't quit .
He backed Jess into a corner , grabbed a handful of the man's shirtfront , and drew back his right fist .
`` Tell me about Arbuckle ! !
You killed him , didn't you '' ? ?
`` It was Brenner's idea '' , Jess mumbled , dabbing at his nose .
`` He found out about you and Arbuckle talking .
He wanted to show the town what happened to anyone who tried to start trouble '' .
`` You mean anyone who stood up for his rights '' , Curt said .
He let go of the shirt , and Jess slumped to the floor .
Turning his back , Curt crossed to the stall , reached over to untie the buckskin's halter rope , and waved his hand in the animal's face .
The buckskin bolted out of the stall .
Curt moved in and picked up his gun .
He shook loose straw out of the action , and placed the gun in his holster .
Leaving Jess's where it lay , he left the stall .
`` Get up , Crouch .
We're going someplace '' .
Jess painfully got to his feet as someone rattled the door .
`` Who's in there '' ? ?
Black called fearfully .
Curt opened the door , grabbed Black by the shoulder , and pulled him into the barn .
`` You're staying right here for a while .
This dirty coward just admitted killing Arbuckle .
I'm going to let him tell it to somebody else '' .
He shoved Black toward the stall , and pointed his pistol at Jess .
`` Get out of here .
You're coming along peacefully , or I'll put a bullet in your leg '' .
Jess stumbled through the door .
Curt followed , reaching behind him to shut the door and hook it .
Black would have little trouble getting out , but it might delay him a few minutes .
`` Where're you takin' me '' ? ?
Jess asked worriedly .
`` We're going to Marshal Woods's house .
Maybe if the marshal hears this himself , it'll make a difference .
Somebody in this town must still have some backbone '' .
Over his shoulder he could see Max's loose grin and the Burnsides' glowering faces .
`` Honey '' , he whispered .
`` Soon as we send them on their way and make camp , let's you and me go for a walk down by the Snake -- all by ourselves '' .
`` Sally '' , admonished her mother , `` you've got all evening to visit with Dan .
His wounds need dressing now '' .
Mrs. Jackson's words recalled Dan to his lack of fitness for courting .
What a spectacle he was , caked with dirt and sweat and blood , filthy as a pig and naked as an Indian , kissing the finest , the sweetest , the bravest , and absolutely the prettiest girl in this whole wonderful world .
He released her reluctantly for her enthusiastic reunion with Old Hap .
`` Got a lot to tend to , but I'll get back quick as I can '' , he assured her .
Dan could hear Clayton Burnside and Eben Jackson summing up their final reckoning for rental on the oxen .
Jackson was doing most of the talking .
So long as Sally's pa was coming out best on the haggle , Dan didn't feel the need of putting in his two-bits' worth .
Soon as the Burnsides moved on , he'd lead Rex down by the river ; ;
there he could shave and scrub himself up for the evening .
Damn it , he thought bitterly , picking up his shirt and staring at the fresh bullet hole in the sleeve .
If I hadn't got Nate stopped when I did , my duds'd all be shot plumb to hell ! !
He stooped , picked up his ruined hat , and pursed his lips thoughtfully .
From the way the wound in his head was itching , Dan knew that it would heal .
But his only hat was something else again .
`` Nate ! !
Nate '' ! !
He shouted .
The Burnsides , now ready to roll , were purposefully deaf to his cry .
`` Nate '' ! !
He bellowed to the retreating back directly in front of him .
`` I ain't going to fight you no more '' .
Nate turned his head , attempting to speak in a soothing voice .
`` I know you ain't '' ! !
Dan affirmed , feeling ten feet tall .
He moved in close , jerked the handsome , broad-brimmed beaver hat from Nate's head and clamped it on his own .
`` Here's a present for you '' , he said , shoving his bullet-riddled hat down over Nate's purpling forehead .
`` Me and you's trading hats so's you'll have something permanent to remember me by '' ! !
Sally left her choring to stand beside Dan .
Slipping her hand in his , they silently watched the Burnsides make the bend in the road and disappear from sight .
Much as they had to look forward to , they didn't begrudge a moment of the time they spent seeing them go .
At first Matilda could not believe her own eyes .
She had spent too many hours looking ahead , hoping and longing to catch even a glimpse of Dan and finding nothing but emptiness .
And now she could see him , looking uncommon handsome , standing there beside Sally Jackson and her folks in front of their trail-worn wagon .
Seeing them waiting there at the foot of Emigrant Rock was so overwhelming that , for a good minute after they rounded the bend and started down the grade leading toward them , Matilda could not speak at all .
Then , with a glory that almost wiped out the deep , downward sags in her careworn face , Matilda leaned over the wheel and shouted to Hez , who was stumbling along in the heat and the dust on the opposite side of the wagon `` Pa ! !
Pa ! !
I can see Dan .
And he's with the Jacksons '' ! !
`` What about Burnsides '' ? ?
Hez asked , who still believed they'd have them to lick .
`` They ain't even in sight '' ! !
She replied .
By then Hez could see for himself , and so could the others .
Soon they were all shouting greetings , exchanging smiles , and rejoicing to think that they were all back together again .
But even a reunion as joyous as this one did not make a break in the routines of the day .
Nor could they stop and find out about all that had happened until they made circle , tended the cattle , tethered the horses , gathered fuel , carried water , and started their cooking fires .
Then , and only then , with the Jacksons and Dan as their true guests of honor , did the Harrows take time to catch up on the news .
No sooner did they hear of Dan's injury than both Gran and Matilda went into immediate action .
The wound in his scalp was examined , pronounced healing , and well doctored with simples , before they dished up the victuals .
From then on , in keeping with the traditions they had followed since childhood , the whole group settled down to relish their food .
Even Sally , in spite of her gaiety and obvious welcome , followed the old taboo of `` quitting the gab when wearing the nosebag '' .
After their supper , the evening turned into a regular `` Hoe-Down '' .
Only , they carefully substituted old country folk dances for the Virginia Reels and square dances that were so popular among more worldly trains in the great westward migration .
But with Bill O'Connor on the fiddle , and Gran Harrow exuberantly shouting `` Glory Be '' and `` Hallelujah '' above their united chant of the lilting old ballads , they played their quaint folk games with all the fervor and abandon of a real celebration .
`` Golly '' , Rod exclaimed to Harmony as he dutifully stood by her side among the ringed spectators , `` don't that fiddle make you wish the Bible didn't say us Baptists can't dance '' ? ?
`` Nor Methodists , neither '' , she replied .
`` Not that it matters to me , being this far along '' .
Rod gave her a warm pat on the shoulder before he replied .
`` Come spring , you'll be kicking up your heels and feeling coltish again too , gal '' .
At these words of sympathy and understanding , Harmony said generously , `` I don't mind setting here along with Gran while you go out and join in the games '' .
Rod shifted his eager eyes from the milling group out in the circle long enough to reply , `` I ain't much of a hand for Dare-Base and Farmer-in-the-Dell , but I'd sure like to get in on the handhold and wrestles '' .
He looked down at his big hands and slowly flexed his long fingers .
`` Don't reckon there's nobody out there , 'cept maybe Dan , who can outgrip me , Harmony '' .
With Rod on his way and Matilda visiting with Mrs. Jackson while they searched out familiar names on the face of the cliff , Harmony settled on the edge of the grub box , to ease the pressure of her swollen body on her bone-weary legs , and worried about all that might have happened to Sally .
And she was deeply thankful that she could see her now , out there in the midst of a gay , youthful circle , skipping and singing , `` Farmer in the dell , Farmer in the dell , Heigh-ho the dairy-oh , the farmer in the dell '' .
At the sight of Sally's happy face and carefree expression , Harmony's dark , brooding eyes quickly brightened with unshed tears .
She was glad , completely and unselfishly glad , to see that things were working out the right way for both Sally and Dan .
And she really tried to go a step further and say she hoped they'd be just as right as they now were for her and for Rod .
But she couldn't , not yet .
Not with the memory of her folks and the lost Conestoga still holding her close .
Out in the center of the circle the farmer , who was Dan , wasted no time when they came to the line , `` The farmer choose his wife '' .
With a swift swoop of his big arms , he grabbed Sally out of the circle surrounding him , and then kissed her soundly before setting her down so she could stand by his side while they jointly chose the rest of their `` outfit '' .
Soon the child , the dog , the cat and even the cheese , all joined them out there in the circle .
By now Harmony could see that most of the adults in the train were winded and resting , or else siphoned off from the games by the challenging lure of the great cliff towering above them .
No matter how many registry rocks they came to on this journey , each one exerted its own appeal .
Even strange names seemed to make them feel closer to some kind of civilization when stumbled across out here in this wilderness .
Already a few hardy folk from their own train were zealously chipping away at the register rocks , leaving their own records along with those made by the earlier trains .
Soon she saw Rod and Hez moving over to join them .
No sooner were they through and the guards posted , than the whole camp turned in for a night of sound sleep .
For Matilda , it was the first she had known in many a night .
Even the knowledge that she was losing another boy , as a mother always does when a marriage is made , did not prevent her from having the first carefree , dreamless sleep that she had known since they dropped down the canyon and into Bear Valley , way , way back there when they were crossing those other mountains .
Next morning , they moved on again .
`` My souls' a-gracious '' ! !
Gran Harrow exclaimed , watching their rippling muscles as Rod and Dan swung her up into the load .
`` A body would swear I floated right up here on a cloud '' ! !
Rod and Dan released their holds on the arms of her hickory rocker and exchanged embarrassed grins .
`` Shucks , Gran '' , they said almost in unison .
`` That wasn't nothing at all '' ! !
Leaning forward in her chair , Gran nearsightedly scrutinized Dan's face .
`` How's Sally like rubbin' agin that thar little ticklebrush ye're a-raising '' ? ?
`` Quit ragging him , Gran '' , Rod protested .
`` I ain't ragging him '' ! !
Gran peered again at the week-old blond mustache shadowing Dan's upper lip .
`` But honest-to-Betsy , I've seed more hair than that on a piece o' bacon '' .
The two tall brothers waited silently while their mother handed Gran her cold snack and water jug , placed the chamber pot beside her feet , and returned to her place at the front of the wagon with Alice .
`` Rheumatics worse , Pa '' ? ?
Dan asked Hez , who had limped back from his team to hold the notched-stick chair braces in place while his boys swung up the tailgate and tied it tight at the ends .
`` My right leg's stiff as a board this morning '' , he replied .
`` But the sun'll fry it out'n me onct we git to rolling '' .
The three men stepped out to the side to wait for Captain Clemens' signal .
Hez looked up at the high face of Emigrant Rock , official signboard for the Raft River turnoff , and gloated , `` Seems funny that them Burnsides never took time to leave their John-Henry up thar '' .
`` Wonder what made them hurry so '' , Rod drawled , giving Dan a sly wink .
Dan grinned , and changed the subject .
`` From now on , Sally and me and her folks aim to give you our turn when it comes up and fall in behind you and Rod's outfit '' .
`` Ain't no sense you eating our dust '' , Rod protested .
`` Sally and her ma want to trade off on account of Harmony being so far along '' , Dan explained .
`` Jackson recruited his critters , and him and me fixed up his wagon while we was waiting for you to catch up .
He's got the tightest running gear in the train now .
Besides , 'tain't no more'n right for me to follow with my black oxen , so's I can unhook and pull up fast if either of you get in a pinch '' .
Captain Clemens' signal shot sent the men hurrying to their waiting teams .
`` Reckon ye're right , Dan '' , Hez called back over his shoulder .
`` I'll shore be needing ye both on the pull out o' the canyon '' .
Rod looked apprehensively ahead at the narrowing , precipice-walled gorge .
`` We'll double teams zigzagging up the mountain , Harmony '' , he spoke reassuringly , concerned by the pinched look around her mouth .
`` Like enough we'll all be up on top by sundown '' .
Out of the corner of his eye , he could see his father's wheels beginning to turn .
Before Harmony had a chance to reply , Rod cracked his long whip over his thin oxen's backs .
While no larger than Dutch Springs , this mining supply town had the appearance of being far busier and more prosperous .
Men crowded the streets and freight rigs and teams were moving about .
Although they were forced to maintain a sharper watch , this activity enabled them to ride in and rack their broncs without any particular attention being paid them .
`` Gyp'll be holdin' forth in some bar if he's here at all '' , Cobb declared , glancing along the street as they stretched their legs .
There were no less than six or seven saloons in Ganado , not counting the lower class dives , all vying for the trade of celebrating miners and teamsters .
Pat only nodded .
`` Take one side of the street , and I'll take the other '' , he proposed .
`` If you spot Carmer give a yell before you move in '' .
Cobb's assent was tight .
`` You do the same .
It's all I ask , Stevens '' .
Separating , they took different sides of the main drag and systematically combed the bars .
Russ visited two places without result and his blood pressure was down to zero .
Suddenly it seemed to him insane that they might hope to locate Gyp Carmer so casually , even were he to prove the thief .
He tramped out of the Miners Rest with his hopes plummeting , and headed doggedly for the Palace Saloon , the last place of any consequence on this side of the street .
The Palace was an elaborate establishment , built practically on stilts in front , with long flights of wooden steps running up to the porch .
Behind its ornate facade the notorious dive clung like a bird's nest to the rocky ribs of the canyonside .
Russ ran up the steps quickly to the plank porch .
The front windows of the place were long and narrow , reaching nearly to the floor and affording an unusually good view of the interior .
Heading for the batwings , Cobb glanced perfunctorily through the nearest window , and suddenly dodged aside .
Nerves tight as a bowstring , he paused to gather his wits .
Against all expectation , Carmer was inside , clearly enjoying himself to the hilt and already so tipsy that it seemed unlikely he was bothering to note anything or anyone about him .
Fierce anger surged through Russ .
He fought down the impulse to rush in and collar the vicious puncher on the spot .
Reaching the porch rail beyond view of the bar windows , he feverishly scanned the busy street below .
Stevens was nowhere in sight .
Muffling an exclamation , Russ sprang to the nearest steps and ran down .
As luck had it , he had not gone twenty feet in the street before Pat appeared .
`` What luck , Cobb '' ? ?
He said swiftly .
Russ pointed upward .
`` He's there '' , he got out tersely , curbing his rising excitement .
Hitching his cartridge belt around , Pat glanced upward briefly at the Palace and started that way with Cobb at his side .
Climbing the steps steadily , they reached the top and headed for the door .
Pat pushed through first .
Forced behind him momentarily , Russ followed at once and halted two steps inside .
His eyes widened .
While five minutes ago the place had presented a scene of easy revelry , with Gyp Carmer a prominent figure , it was now as somnolent and dull as the day before payday .
Carmer himself was nowhere to be seen .
A man knocked the roulette ball about idly in its track , and another dozed at one of the card tables .
Two men murmured with their heads together at the end of the bar , while the sleek-headed bartender absently polished a glass .
Looking the setup over , Stevens started coolly for the rear of the place .
`` Where yuh goin' '' ? ?
It was the barkeep .
Halting , Pat turned to survey him deliberately .
He did not reply , going on toward the back .
Less assured than the tall , wide-shouldered man in the lead , Cobb followed alertly , a hand on his gun butt .
The bartender measured this situation with heavy eyes and decided he wanted no part of it .
He said no more .
A hall opened in back of the bar , running toward an ell .
Pat moved into it .
Small rooms , probably for cards , opened off on either side .
All the doors were open at this hour except one , and it was toward this that Stevens made his way with Russ close at his shoulder .
The door was locked .
A single kick made it spring open , shuddering .
Pat saw Gyp Carmer staggering forward , a half-filled bottle upraised as if to strike .
Russ sprang through to bat it nimbly aside .
With a bellow Carmer lunged at him .
But he was more than half-drunk , and his faculties were dulled .
Cobb unleashed a single powerful jab that sent Gyp reeling wildly and crashing down with a whining groan .
He started to struggle up , heaving desperately .
Russ gave him a brutal thrust that tumbled him over flat on his stomach .
Kneeling , Cobb planted a sturdy knee in the small of his back , holding him pinned .
`` Okay , Stevens .
I've drawn his fangs '' , he snapped .
`` Go through his pockets , will you ? ?
If we have to we'll take him apart and see what he's made of '' ! !
Complying methodically , Pat pulled pocket after pocket inside out without finding a thing .
Cobb watched this with hunted eyes , his desperate hope waning by the moment .
Stevens was grunting over the last empty pocket when Russ abruptly rose and lunged toward Carmer's hat , which had tumbled half-a-dozen feet away when he first fell .
Cobb got it .
Straightening up , his eyes ablaze , he held out the battered Stetson .
`` Look at this '' ! !
Inside the crown , stuffed behind the stained sweatband , could be seen thin , crumpled wads of currency .
Carmer's ingenious cache for his loot had been found .
`` By golly , Stevens ! !
You were right '' , Russ exclaimed , tearing the loose bills out of Carmer's hat .
`` That is , if we can be sure this is Colcord's money '' --
Pat grunted .
`` Where else would he get it ? ?
Count what you've got there , Cobb .
We can soon tell '' .
Russ ran through the bills and named an amount it was highly unlikely any cowpuncher would come by honestly .
Pat nodded .
`` It's within a hundred of what Crip had '' , he declared .
`` We know Penny spent some -- and Carmer must have dropped a few dollars getting that load on '' .
Handing the money over , Russ wiped his hands on his pants-legs as if ridding himself of something unclean .
His glance at Gyp Carmer was disdainful .
`` Shall we get out of here '' ? ?
Leaving the card room , they moved back through the Palace the way they had come .
Glowering looks met them in the bar , but there was no attempt to halt them .
Pausing in the outside door to glance behind him , Pat looked his unspoken warning and stepped out .
He and Cobb clattered down the high steps to the street .
Neither spoke till they reached their horses .
Pat paused there , looking across at the young fellow .
It'll be a pleasure for you to return this money to Colcord and tell him about it , Russ '' .
He started to return it .
To his faint surprise Russ held up his hand .
`` Not me '' , he ruled decidedly .
I've had enough .
It was you that tracked it down anyway , Stevens '' , he pursued strictly .
`` I'll shove along home '' .
`` Whatever you say '' .
Pat swung into the saddle , yet still he delayed , his brows puckered .
`` You owe it to Penny to give her a chance to explain that she was defending you , really '' , he observed mildly .
`` Old Crip wasn't '' , retorted Cobb tartly .
`` He'll know when you tell him .
But I want this to sink in awhile .
Then maybe next time he won't be so quick on the trigger '' .
`` Pat had never pretended to give advice in such affairs .
`` You're the doctor '' , he returned with a smile .
`` But I still think Penny's an awful nice girl , Russ '' --
`` You don't have to tell me '' , flashed Cobb .
Giving the other a dark look , he hauled his bronc around and trotted down off the street .
Pat let him go , following more leisurely .
At the first restaurant he sensibly pulled up to go in for his dinner , and as a consequence did not see Cobb strike the open range at the mouth of the canyon and head straight across the swells for Antler .
The truth was , the puncher was both bewildered and dismayed by his own mixed luck .
`` Penny's always glad to see me over there '' , he mused bleakly .
Yet had he not visited the girl at Saw Buck he would never have been involved in this latest tangle .
Over and above that , however , was his growing suspicion of Chuck Stober's part in recent events .
`` Gyp Carmer couldn't have known about Colcord's money unless he was told -- and who else would have told him '' ? ?
He asked himself .
`` It's the second time War Ax hands made a play for that money .
How much of an accident could that be '' ? ?
Nearing home , he jerked to attention at the distant crack of a gun .
In town no one paid much attention to an occasional shot ; ;
but on the range gunfire had a meaning .
Hauling up , Russ listened carefully .
Two minutes later it came again -- a double explosion , followed by a third , sounding more distant .
As near as Cobb could determine the shots came from the direction of the Antler ranch house .
He tightened up in a twinkling .
So far as he knew , only his father could be there .
What did it mean ? ?
Clapping spurs to the bronc he set off at a sharp canter , with growing alarm .
His first glimpse of the ranch house across the brushy swells told him nothing .
Still a quarter-mile away , the fresh clap of guns only served to increase his speed .
Setting a course straight for the house , he was covering ground fast when an angry bee buzzed past close to his face .
When it was followed by a second , whining even closer , Cobb swerved sharply aside into a depression .
He knew now what he was up against .
Whoever was out there hiding in the brushy cover was besieging the Antler house and , having spotted his approach , was determined to drive him off before he could get into the fight .
Cursing himself for having ridden out the last few days without a rifle in his saddle boot , Russ drew his Colt and examined it briefly .
If he wondered whether the attackers would allow him to pull away unmolested , he had his answer a moment later .
`` Over this way ! !
He ain't gone far '' ! !
A harsh cry floated to him across the brush .
A carbine cracked more loudly , and a slug clipped fragments from the brush off at one side .
The would-be assassin had his position figured pretty close .
Dismounting , Russ looked about hastily .
Toward the west this depression led toward a draw .
Leading his pony , he hurried that way , not remounting till he was well below the level of the surrounding range .
Swinging up then , and bending forward over the horn , he urged his mount down the meandering draw .
He had not covered a hundred yards before a gun crashed from somewhere behind .
He had been sighted , and his attacker pumping shot after shot .
A shot or two went wild before Cobb felt something tug at his foot .
A slug had torn half of his stirrup-guard away .
A second twitched his shirtsleeve , and he felt a brief burn on his upper arm .
Another snarled close overhead .
`` Jumping Jerusalem ! !
Let's get out of here '' ! !
At the first shot Russ had hurled his mount to the left toward the side of the winding draw .
The long minute before he reached effective cover seemed endless .
Sweeping a look around , he saw that he was safe for the moment .
He heard cries from behind him , but he could make out no words .
He dashed madly for the next elbow turn in the draw , and made it .
Recklessly hurling the bronc sidewise into an intersecting draw , he plunged forward with undiminished speed .
Gradually the wash climbed upward , forcing him toward open range .
Yet he must chance it .
He clambered out of the dwindling wash , the loose dirt flying behind him , and flashed a look about .
Early in November the clouds lifted enough to carry out the assigned missions .
And Sweeney Squadron put its first marks on the combat record .
Every plane that could fly was sent into the air .
Cricket took eight ships and went south across the Straits and along the north coast of Mindanao to Cagayan .
Anything the enemy flew or floated was his target .
Fleischman with eight was to patrol the Leyte Gulf area , with his main task to get any kamikaze before they got to the ships .
Greg himself took two flights , with Todman leading the second , to patrol and look for targets of opportunities around Ormoc on the east coast of Leyte .
Each plane carried two five-hundred pound bombs .
A weapons carrier took Greg , Todman , Belton , Banjo Ferguson , and Walters and the others the two miles from the bivouac area to the strip .
It was a rough long ride through the mud and pot holes .
No one had much to say .
The sky glowered down at them .
There was a feeling that this mission would be canceled like all the others and that this muddy wet dark world of combat would go on forever .
The truck dropped them off at the various revetments spread through the jungle .
Donovan snatched Greg's chute from him with a belligerent motion and almost ran to the plane with it .
His face was dark as the sky above it as he stood on the wing and waited for his pilot .
Greg climbed into the cockpit feeling as if he had never been in one before .
But his hands and those of Donovan moved automatically adjusting and arranging in the check-out procedure .
`` I've got her as neat as I can '' , Donovan said , as he dropped the straps of the Seton harness over Greg's shoulders .
`` But this goddamn climate .
It's for carabao not airplanes '' .
`` We'll make out .
Don't you worry , chief '' , Greg replied , wondering if he himself believed it .
`` Yeah .
See you '' , Donovan said as he jumped off the wing .
The expression was his trade-mark , his open sesame to good luck , and his prayer that pilot and plane would always return .
At the prearranged time , Greg started the engine and taxied out .
From the time the chocks were pulled until the plane was out of sight , he knew Donovan would keep his back to the strip .
He wondered where the superstition had originated that it was bad luck for a crew chief to watch his plane take off on a combat mission .
Yet long before the scheduled time for return , Donovan would be watching for every speck in the sky .
Greg rumbled down the rough metal taxi strip , and one by one the seven members of his flight fell in behind him .
The dark brown bombs hanging under each wing looked large and powerful .
The pilots' heads looked ridiculously small .
The control tower gave him immediate take-off permission , and the clean roar of the engine that took him off the rough strip spoke well of the skill of Donovan .
Greg's mission was the last to leave , and as he circled the ships off Tacloban he saw the clouds were dropping down again .
To the west , the dark green hills of Leyte were lost in the clouds about halfway up their slopes .
Underneath him the sea was a dark and muddied gray .
Water splashed against his windshield as he led the flight in and out of showers .
The metal strip they had taken off from was coal black against the green jungle around it .
He possessed the fighter pilot's horror of bad weather and instrument flying , and he wondered , if the ceiling did drop , whether he and the other flights would be able to find their way back in this unfamiliar territory .
He shivered in the warm cockpit .
The overcast was solid above him .
As far as he could see there was no hole to climb through it .
They would have to go west through the narrow river valley that separated Leyte from Samar and hope that it didn't close in before they returned .
Greg pushed the radio button on his throttle .
`` Todman , let's try to go under this stuff .
Stay in close and we'll go up the valley '' .
`` Roger , Sweeney '' , Todman called back , and pulled his four in and slightly above Greg .
Greg took the formation wide around three A-26 attack bombers that were headed north over the Gulf .
He dropped down to five hundred feet , swinging a little north of the city of Tacloban , and punched into the opening that showed against the mountain .
The valley was only a few hundred yards wide with just about room enough for a properly performed hundred-and-eighty-degree turn .
It was only a fifteen-minute flight , but before it was through Greg felt himself developing a case of claustrophobia .
The ceiling stayed solid above them at about eight hundred feet , and at times the sheer cliffs seemed about to close in .
If the other pilots were worried , they did not show it .
The formation remained perfect .
When the sea was visible ahead of them , the relief was as great as if the sun had come out .
He spread the flight out and led them across a point of land and then down the coast .
Although they drew light ground fire they saw no signs of activity .
Once Todman thought he had spotted a tank and went down to investigate while Greg covered him .
`` Somebody beat us to it '' ! !
Todman said over the radio as he came back up in formation .
Visibility continued to be limited , and Greg was never able to get above a thousand feet .
It was frustrating .
His earphones were constantly full of the sounds of enemy contacts made by other flights .
He thought once that he identified the somewhat hysterical voice of Fleischman claiming a kill .
But Greg's area remained as placid as a Florida dawn .
Finally , as time began to run out , he headed into Ormoc and glide-bombed a group of houses that Intelligence had thought might contain Japanese supplies .
The low clouds made bombing difficult .
There was not enough room to make the usual vertical bomb run .
The accuracy was deplorable .
One of Greg's bombs hung up , and he was miles from the target before he could get rid of it .
Only one of the flight scored a direct hit and the rest blew up jungle .
With their load of bombs gone , the planes moved swiftly and easily .
Greg went up tight against the ceiling and led them back to their pass to home .
Mercifully , it was still open .
Like a man making a deep dive , Greg took full breath and plunged back into the valley .
He was about to make a gas check on his flight when Todman's voice broke in : `` Sweeneys ! !
Three bogies .
Twelve o'clock level '' .
Greg's eyes flicked up from his instrument panel .
He saw them , specks against the gray , but closing fast .
They were headed straight for each other on a collision course .
Friend or enemy ? ?
The same old question .
And only a few seconds to answer it .
`` Zeros '' ! !
Todman said excitedly , and hopefully .
And then he thought Todman might be right .
His mind flicked through the mental pictures he had from the hours of Aircraft Identification .
He narrowed the shape down to two : either a Zero or a U. S. Navy type aircraft .
If it were the enemy , tactically his position was correct .
Japanese aircraft were strong on maneuverability , American on speed and firepower .
His present maximum altitude , up against the overcast , gave him the opportunity to exploit his advantages .
But it also made him conspicuous to the enemy , if it was the enemy , and he hadn't been spotted already .
But the closing aircraft showed no sign of deviating from their original course .
In seconds , Greg made his decision .
He pushed the radio button .
`` Sweeney Blue , hit the deck .
Lots of throttle .
Todman , you take the one on the left .
I'll take the middle .
Belton , the one on the right .
If they're Japs .
Let's make sure first '' .
Greg had the stick forward and the throttle up before he heard the two `` Rogers '' .
The planes , light with most of the gas burned out , responded beautifully .
Greg's airspeed indicator was over 350 when he leveled off just above the trees .
The opposing aircraft continued to come on .
They appeared to be the enemy .
Greg wished the Air Corps had continued to camouflage planes .
There was , of course , no way for the other planes to get by them .
It was a box .
But they could turn and escape to the east .
Greg pushed the radio button again .
`` Todman , drop your second element back .
If any of us miss , they can pick up the pieces .
Now let's make sure they're Japs '' .
Even as he said it , Greg knew they had found the enemy .
The shapes were unmistakable and the Rising Suns were showing up , slightly brighter pinpoints in the gray gloom .
Greg slapped his hand across the switches that turned on the guns and gun camera and gun sight .
The circle with the dot in the center showed up yellow on the reflector glass in front of him .
His hands shook .
`` Arm your guns , Sweeneys '' .
`` They're Japs .
They're Japs '' , came a high-pitched voice .
`` Greg to Sweeney Blue .
One pass only .
No turns .
You'll bust your ass in this canyon .
That's an order '' .
He moved the flights over against one wall .
It gave them all a chance to make a high-speed climbing turn attack and a break-away that would not take them into the overcast or force a tight-turn recovery .
If the turn was too tight , a barrel roll would bring them out .
A hell of an altitude for a barrel roll , but it could be done .
Greg slammed his throttle to the fire wall and rammed up the RPM , and the engine responded as if it had been waiting .
The clearly identifiable enemy continued on as if no one else were around .
`` They haven't seen us '' , Greg yelled to himself over the engine noise .
`` They haven't seen us '' .
He hit the radio button .
`` Now , Sweeneys , now .
Let's take 'em home '' .
He hauled back on the stick and felt his cheeks sag .
Out of the corner of his eye , he watched his wingman move out a bit and shoot up with him .
Perfect , he thought .
With the rapid rate of closure , the approach from below , the side , and ahead , there would be only a moment when damage could be done .
Just like shooting at a duck while performing a half-gainer from a diving board .
He tightened his turn .
His nose up .
It was going to be dangerous .
Eight aircraft in this small box .
Please , dear God , make my pilots good , he prayed .
He took a lead on the enemy , using a distance of five of the radii in his circular sight and then added another .
The enemy did not veer .
It did not seem possible that they hadn't been spotted .
Blind fools .
Now ! !
Greg's fingers closed on the stick trigger .
The plane rumbled and slowed .
Six red lines etched their way into the gray and vanished .
As if drawn by a wire the enemy flew into them .
Greg tightened his turn until the plane shuddered .
Luck was with him .
His burst held for a second on the engine section of the plane .
The Jap's propeller flew off in pieces .
A large piece of engine cowling vanished .
It was all Greg had time to see .
His maneuvering for the shot had placed him near the overcast , almost inverted and heading up into the clouds .
His speed was dropping rapidly .
If he spun out now , he would join his opponent on the ground .
Wingman , stay clear , he prayed .
He pushed stick and rudder and entered the overcast on his back .
He fought the panic of vertigo .
He had no idea which was up and which was down .
He held the controls where they had been .
Sweat popped out over him and he felt the slick between his palm and the stick grip .
His air speed dropped until he thought he would spin out .
Over the rattling of fenders , humming of tires and chattering of gears there was a charming melody of whispers and tiny giggles .
Cool air moving slowly through the open or smashed-out side windows hinted of blooming roadside vegetation , and occasionally a faint fragrance of perfume swirled from the back seat .
`` Moriarty '' , my driver suddenly exclaimed with something so definite , so final in his tone I once more repeated the absurdity , mustering all my latent powers of hypocrisy to sound convinced .
We were coming to an intersection , turning right , chuffing to a stop .
Forced to realize that this was the end of a very short line I scanned a road marker and discovered what the end of a slightly longer line would be for the old Mexican : Moriarty , New Mexico .
`` Gracias .
Adios '' , I said , exhausting my Spanish vocabulary on my host and exchanging one of a scarcely-tapped store of smiles with my host's daughters .
I waved with discretion and moderation to the vague golden faces fading through rising dust and the distortions of the back window glass .
Then I saw the father's head slightly turn ; ;
gauche rainbow shapes replaced the poignant ovals of gold .
Autos whizzed past .
White-shirted and conservatively-cravated drivers stared conspicuously toward the eastern horizon and past my supplicating and accusing gaze .
Suddenly a treble auto horn tootley-toot-tootled , and , thumbing hopefully , I saw emergent in windshield flash : red lips , streaming silk of blonde hair and -- ah , trembling confusion of hope , apprehension , despair -- the leering face of old Herry .
`` Mor-ee-air-teeeee '' , he shrieked , his white teeth grossly counterpointing those of the glittering blonde .
Over the rapidly-diminishing outline of a jump seat piled high with luggage Herry's black brushcut was just discernible , near , or enviably near that spot where -- hidden -- more delicately-textured , most beautifully tinted hair must still be streaming back in cool , oh cool wind sweetly perfumed with sagebrush and yucca flowers and engine fumes .
Damn his luck .
I would have foregone my romantic chances rather than leave a friend sweltering and dusty and -- Well , at least I wouldn't have shouted back a taunt .
Still nursing anger I listlessly thumbed a car that was slowly approaching , its pre-war chrome nearly blinding me .
It was stopping .
Just as I straightened up with my duffel bag , I heard : `` Sahjunt Yoorick , meet Mrs. Major J. A. Roebuck '' .
The voice was that of Johnson , tail gunner off another crew .
Squeezing a look between Johnson's fat jowls and the car frame a handsome and still darkhaired lady inquired `` Y'all drahve '' ? ?
I nodded .
`` Onleh one thiihng '' , Mrs. Roebuck continued .
`` Ahm goin nawth t'jawn mah husbun in Sante Fe , an y'all maht prefuh the suhthuhn rewt .
But Corporal Johnson has alreadeh said it didn make no diffrunce t'hi-im '' .
I said that it didn't make any difference to me either , as far as I knew .
How far I knew will shortly become apparent .
Let me pass over the trip to Sante Fe with something of the same speed which made Mrs. Roebuck `` wonduh if the wahtahm speed limit '' ( 35 m.p.h. ) `` is still in ee-faket '' .
I let up on the accelerator , only to gradually reach again the 60 m.p.h. which would , I hoped , overhaul Herry and the blonde , and as there were cars whose drivers apparently had something more important to catch than had I , Mrs. Major Roebuck settled down to practicing on Corporal Johnson the kittenish wiles she would need when making her duty call on Colonel and Mrs. Somebody in Sante Fe .
When Johnson ejaculated `` Howsabout my buying us all a nice cold Co-cola , Ma'am '' ? ?
Mrs. Roebuck smilingly declined and began suddenly to go on about her son , who was `` onleh a little younguh than you bawhs '' .
Johnson never would have believed she had a son that age .
Mrs. Roebuck thought Johnson was a `` sweet bawh t'lah lahk thet '' , but her Herman was getting to be a man , there was no getting around it .
`` Just befoh he left foh his academeh we wuh hevin dack-rihs on the vuhranduh , Major Roebuck an Ah , an Huhmun says ' May Ah hev one too ' ? ?
Just as p'lite an -- an cohnfidunt , an Ah says ' Uh coahse you cain't ' , but he says ' Whah nawt , you ah hevin one ' ? ?
An Ah coudn ansuh him an so Ah said ' Aw right , Ah gay-ess , an his fathuh didn uttuh one wohd an aftuh Huhmun was gone , the majuh laughed an tole me thet he an the bawh had been hevin an occasional drink t'gethuh f'ovuh a yeah , onleh an occasional one , but just the same it was behahn mah back , an Ah doan think thet's nahce at all , d'you '' ? ?
`` No , I don't '' , Johnson said .
`` I'm a good Baptist , and drinking ''
Mrs. Roebuck very kindly let me drive through Sante Fe to a road which would , she said , lead us to Taos and then Raton and `` eventshahleh '' out of New Mexico .
How lightly her `` eventshah-leh '' passed into the crannies where I was storing dialect material for some vaguely dreamed opus , and how the word would echo .
And re-echo .
Hardly had Mrs. Roebuck driven off when a rusty pick-up truck , father or grandfather of Senor `` Moriarty's '' Ford sedan , came screeching to a dust-swirling stop , and a brown face appeared , its nose threatened by shards of what had once been the side window .
`` Get in , buddies .
Get in '' .
The straight , black hair flopped in a vigorous nod , the slender nose plunged toward glass teeth and drew safely back .
Johnson unwired the right hand door , whose window was , like the left one , merely loosely-taped fragments of glass , and Johnson wadded himself into a narrow seat made still more narrow by three cases of beer .
`` In back , buddy '' , the driver said to me .
Quickly but carefully lowering my duffel bag over the low side-rack , I stepped on the running board ; ;
it flopped down , sprang back up and gouged my shin .
The truck was hurtling forward .
I seized the rack and made a western-style flying-mount just in time , one of my knees mercifully landing on my duffel bag -- and merely wrecking my camera , I was to discover later -- my other knee landing on the slivery truck floor boards and -- but this is no medical report .
I was again in motion and at a speed which belied the truck's similarity to Senor X's Ford turtle .
Maybe I would beat old Herry to Siberia after all .
Whatever satisfaction that might offer .
Something pulled my leg .
I drew back , drawing back my foot for a kick .
But it was only Johnson reaching around the wire chicken fencing , which half covered the truck cab's glassless rear window .
The way his red rubber lips were stretched across his pearly little teeth I thought he was only having a little joke , but , no , he wanted me to bend down from the roar of wind so he could roar something into my ear .
`` Wanna beer '' ? ?
`` Hell , yes '' , I roared back between dusty lips .
Did I want a beer ? ?
Did an anteater want ants ? ?
`` Bueno , amigo .
Gracias '' , I hollered , my first long swallow filling me with confidence and immediately doubling the size of my Spanish vocabulary .
At once my ears were drowned by a flow of what I took to be Spanish , but -- the driver's white teeth flashing at me , the road wildly veering beyond his glistening hair , beyond his gesticulating bottle -- it could have been the purest Oxford English I was half hearing ; ;
I wouldn't have known the difference .
Johnson was trying to grab the wheel , though the swerve of the truck was throwing him away from it .
White teeth suddenly vanishing , the driver slammed the side of his bottle against Johnson's ear .
We were off the road , gleaming barbed wire pulling taut .
I ducked just as the first strand broke somewhere down the line and came whipping over the sideboards .
We were in a field , in a tight , screeching turn .
Prairie dogs were popping up and popping down .
When I fell on my back , I saw a vulture hovering .
Just as I got to my knees , there was again the sound of the fence stretching , and I had time only to start taking my kneeling posture seriously .
This time no wire came whipping into the truck .
We were back on the road .
I regained my squatting position behind the truck cab's rear window .
Johnson's left hand was pressed against the side of his head , red cheeks whitening beneath his fingers .
`` Tee-wah '' , the driver cackled , his black eyes glittering behind dull silver chicken fencing .
`` That was Tee-wah I was talking .
You thought I was a Mexican , didn't you , buddy '' ? ?
I nodded .
`` Hell , that's all right , buddy '' , the Indian ( I now guessed ) said .
`` Drink your beer '' .
Miraculously , the bottle was still in my hand , foam still geysering over my ( luckily ) waterproof watch .
No sooner had I started drinking than the driver started zigzagging the truck .
The beer foamed furiously .
I drank furiously .
A long time .
Emptied the bottle .
Teeth again flashing back at me , the driver released a deluge of Spanish in which `` amigo '' appeared every so often like an island in the stormy waves of surrounding sound .
I bobbed my head each time it appeared .
Suddenly the Spanish became an English in which only one word emerged with clarity and precision , `` son of a bitch '' , sometimes hyphenated by vicious jabs of a beer bottle into Johnson's quivering ribs .
A big car was approaching , its chrome teeth grinning .
Beyond it the gray road stretched a long , long way .
The car was just about to us , its driver's fat , solemn face intent on the road ahead , on business , on a family in Sante Fe -- on anything but an old pick-up truck in which two human beings desperately needed rescue .
I tossed the bottle .
High , so it would only bounce harmlessly but loudly off the car's steel roof .
Too high .
On unoccupied roadway the bottle shattered into a small amber flash .
`` Aye-yah-ah-ah '' ! !
The Indian was again raising his bottle , but to my astonished relief -- probably only a fraction of Johnson's -- the bottle this time went to the Indian's lips .
Another car was coming , a tiny , dark shape on a far hill .
I started looking on the splintery truck bed for a piece of board , a dirt clod -- anything I could throw and with better aim than I had thrown the beer bottle .
We were slowing .
In the ditch sand was white and soft-looking , only an occasional pebble discernible , faintly gleaming .
But Johnson couldn't quickly unwire the truck door , and if I escaped , he might suffer .
The car was approaching fast .
On the truck bed there was nothing smaller than a piece of rusty machinery ; ;
with more time I could have loosened a small burr or cotter pin --
Suddenly and not a second too soon I thought of the coins in my pocket .
There was no time to pick out a penny ; ;
I got a coin between my thumb and forefinger , leaned my elbows in a very natural and casual manner on top of the truck cab and flipped my little missile .
There was a blur just under my focus of vision , a crash ; ;
the car's far windshield panel turned into a silver web with a dark hole in the center .
I heard the screech of brakes behind me , an insane burst of laughter beneath me .
Looking back I saw a gray-haired man getting out of his halted car and trying to read our license number .
`` S-s-sahjunt '' .
Johnson's fat hand , another bottle were protruding from the truck cab , and that self-proclaimed Baptist teetotaler , had a bottle at his own lips .
Two cars came over a crest , their chrome and glass flashing .
The Indian's arm whipped sidewise -- there was a flash of amber and froth , the crash of the bottle shattering against the side of the first car .
Brakes shrieked behind us .
I saw Johnson's bottle snatched from his hand , saw it go in a swirl of foam just behind the second car .
This time there was no sound of brakes but the shrieking of women .
I looked back at pale ovals framed in the elongated oval of the car's rear window .
`` Drink , you son of a bitch '' ! !
I quickly turned around and began to drink .
But the Indian was jabbing another bottle toward Johnson .
I guided her to the divan , turned off the TV , faced her .
She sat quietly , staring at me from the wide eyes .
And what eyes they were .
Big and dark , a melting , golden brown .
Eyes like hot honey , eyes that sizzled .
Plus flawless skin , smooth brow and cheeks , lips that looked as if you could get a shock from them .
It was a disturbingly familiar face , too , but I couldn't remember where we had met .
I said , `` Do we know each other , Miss '' ? ?
`` No , I remembered reading about you in the papers and that you lived here , and when it happened all I could think of was '' -- This time she stopped the rush of words herself .
`` I'm sorry .
Shall I go on '' ? ?
She smiled .
It was her first smile .
But worth waiting for .
`` Sure '' .
I said .
`` But one word at a time , O.K. '' ? ?
She was still hugging the stained coat around her , so I said , `` Relax , let me take your things .
Would you like a drink , or coffee '' ? ?
`` No , thanks '' .
She stood up , pulled the coat from her shoulders and started to slide it off , then let out a high-pitched scream and I let out a low-pitched , wobbling sound like a muffler blowing out .
She was wearing nothing beneath the coat .
She jerked the coat back on and squeezed it around her again , but not soon enough .
There had been a good second or two during which my muffler had been blowing out , and now I was certain I'd seen her somewhere before .
`` I forgot '' ! !
She yelped .
`` Oh , do forgive me .
I'm sorry '' ! !
`` I forgive '' --
`` That's what started all the trouble in the first place .
Oh , dear , I'm all unstrung '' .
`` You and me both , dear .
Haven't we haven't I seen you .
I mean , surely we've '' --
`` You may have seen me on TV '' , she said .
`` I've done several filmed commercials for '' --
Then it hit me .
`` Zing '' ! !
I cried .
`` Why , yes .
And you recognized me '' ? ?
`` Yes , indeed .
In fact , I was watching you on that little seventeen-inch screen when you rang my bell .
Man , you rang -- it was in color , too , Miss , and Miss ? ?
What's your name , anyway ? ?
Ah , you were splendid '' .
I sat by her on the divan .
`` Splendid .
In a waterfall and all that '' .
`` That's the last one we did .
That was a fun one '' .
`` I'll bet .
It was fun for me , all right .
I don't mean to pry , but do they hide the swimsuit with the bubbles ? ?
I mean : Is advertising honest ? ?
`` It depends on who does it .
I never wear anything at all .
It wouldn't -- wouldn't seem fair , somehow '' .
`` I couldn't agree with you more '' .
`` I really do have something important to tell you , Mr. Scott .
About the murder '' .
`` Murder ? ?
Oh , yeah '' , I said .
`` Tell me about the murder '' .
She told me .
Zing was the creation of two men , Louis Thor and Bill Blake , partners in zing ! !
, Inc. .
They'd peddled the soap virtually alone , and without much success , until about a year ago , when -- with the addition of `` SX-21 '' to their secret formula and the inauguration of a high-powered advertising campaign -- sales had soared practically into orbit .
Their product had been endorsed by Good Housekeeping , the A.M.A. , and the Veterinary Journal , among other repositories of higher wisdom , and before much longer if you didn't have a cake of their soap in the john , even your best friends would think you didn't bathe .
My lovely caller -- Joyce Holland was her name -- had previously done three filmed commercials for zing , and this evening , the fourth , a super production , had been filmed at the home of Louis Thor .
The water in Thor's big swimming pool had been covered with a blanket of thick , foamy soapsuds -- fashioned , of course , from zing -- Joyce had dived from the board into the pool , then swirled and cavorted in her luxurious `` bath '' while cameras rolled .
The finished -- and drastically cut -- product would begin with a hazy longshot of Joyce entering the suds , then bursting above the pool's surface clad in layers of lavender lather , and I had a hunch this item was going to sell tons and tons of soap ; ;
even to clean men and boys .
Joyce went on , `` When we'd finished , Lou -- Mr. Thor -- asked me to stay a little longer .
He wanted a few stills for magazine ads , he said .
Everybody left and I stayed in the pool , then Lou came back alone and leaped into the pool too .
And he didn't have any clothes on '' .
`` He didn't '' ! !
`` Yes , he didn't .
Did , I mean '' .
She paused .
`` Did leap into the pool , and didn't have anything on .
Anyway , it was evident what he had in mind '' .
`` You got away , didn't you '' ? ?
`` Yes .
He caught up with me once and grabbed me , but I was all covered with zing -- it's very slippery , you know '' .
`` I didn't know .
I wouldn't have the stuff in the house .
But I'm pleased to hear '' --
`` So I just scooted out of his clutches .
I swam like mad , got out of the pool , grabbed my robe , and ran to the car .
The keys were still in it , and I was miles away before I remembered that my clothes and purse and everything were still in the little cabana where I'd changed '' .
She'd driven around for a while , Joyce said , then , thinking Louis Thor would have calmed down by that time , she'd gone back to his home on Bryn Mawr Drive , parked in front , and walked toward the pool .
While several yards from it , still concealed by the shrubbery , she'd seen two men on her left at the pool's edge .
She went on :
`` A man was holding onto Lou , holding him up .
Maybe Lou was only unconscious , but right then I thought he must be dead .
The man shoved him into the water , then ran past the cabana .
There's a walk there that goes out to Quebec Drive .
I was so scared well , I just ran to my car and came here '' .
`` You know who the other man was '' ? ?
`` No , I never did see his face .
I didn't get a good look at him at all , his back was to me , and I was so scared It was just somebody in a man's suit .
But I'm sure the other one was Lou '' .
What Joyce wanted me to do was go to Thor's house and `` do whatever detectives do '' , and get her clothes -- and handbag containing her identification .
She realized I'd have to notify the police , but fervently hoped I could avoid mentioning her name .
Her impact in the zing commercials had led to her being considered for an excellent part in an upcoming TV series , Underwater Western Eye , a documentary-type show to be sponsored by Oatnut Grits .
But if Joyce got involved in murder or salacious scandal , the role would probably go to the sponsor's wife , Mrs. Oatnut Grits .
Or at least not to Joyce .
`` And I so want the part '' , she said .
`` The commercials have just been for money , there hasn't been any real incentive for me to do them , but in Underwater Western Eye I'd have a chance to act .
I could show what I can do '' .
As far as I was concerned , she had already and had dandily shown what she could do .
But I promised Joyce I would mention her name , if at all , only as a last resort .
Seeming much relieved , she smiled one of those worth-waiting-for smiles , and I smiled all the way into the bedroom .
There I got my Colt Special and shoulder harness , slipped my coat on , and went back into the front room .
Joyce squirmed a little on the divan .
`` I'm starting to itch '' , she said .
`` Itch '' ? ?
`` Yes , I'm still all covered with that soap .
