others suggest its coming loss or describe the poet's feelings when he learns of a final separation .
The somewhat Petrarchan love story which these poems suggest cannot obscure the fact that undoubtedly they have more than a little of autobiographical sincerity .
When they were first written , there was evidently no thought of their being published , and those which refer to the writer's love for Mrs. Meynell particularly have the ring of truth .
In `` My Song's Young Virgin Date '' , for example , Thompson wrote : `` Yea , she that had my song's young virgin date Not now , alas , that noble singular she , I nobler hold , though marred from her once state , Than others in their best integrity .
My own stern hand has rent the ancient bond , And thereof shall the ending not have end : But not for me , that loved her , to be fond Lightly to please me with a newer friend Then hold it more than bravest-feathered song , That I affirm to thee , with heart of pride , I knew not what did to a friend belong Till I stood up , true friend , by thy true side ; ;
Whose absence dearer comfort is , by far , Than presences of other women are '' ! !
Taking into account Thompson's capacity for self-dramatization and the possibility of a wish to identify his own life with the misfortunes of other poets who had known unhappy loves , there can be no doubt about his genuine emotion for Katie King .
That she was affected by his protestations seems obvious , but since she was evidently a sensible young woman -- as well as an outgoing and sympathetic type -- it would seem that for her the word friendship had a far less intense emotional significance than that which Thompson gave it .
From the outset , she must have realized that marriage with him was out of the question , and although she was displeased by the `` unwarrantable '' interference , it seems probable that she did agree with her mother's suggestion that the poet was `` perhaps '' a man `` most fitted to live & die solitary , & in the love only of the Highest Lover '' .
The poems which were addressed to her , while they are far more restrained than those of `` Love In Dian's Lap '' , show no great technical advance over those of the `` Narrow Vessel '' group and are , if anything , somewhat more labored .
Their interest remains chiefly biographical , for they throw some light on the utter despair which overtook Thompson in the spring and early summer of 1900 .
Whether or not Danchin is correct in suggesting that Thompson's resumption of the opium habit also dates from this period is , of course , a matter of conjecture .
Reid simply states , without offering any supporting evidence , that `` after he returned to London , he resumed his draughts of laudanum , and continued this right up to his death '' .
There is every reason to recognize that in the very last years of his life , as we shall see , Thompson did take the drug in carefully rationed doses to ease the pains of his illness , but the exact date at which this began has never been determined .
If , as Reid says , `` nearly all his poetry was produced when he was not taking opium '' , there may be some reason to doubt that he was under its influence in the period from 1896 to 1900 when he was writing the poems to Katie King and making plans for another book of verse .
In any event , the critical productivity of that time is abundant proof that if he was taking laudanum , it was never in command of him to the extent that it had been during his vagrant years .
Meynell's remedy for Thompson's despondent mood was typically practical .
He simply found more work for him to do , and the articles and reviews continued without an evident break .
3 ,
As a reviewer , Thompson generally displayed a judicious attitude .
That he read some of the books assigned to him with a studied carefulness is evident from his notes , which are often so full that they provide an unquestionable basis for the identification of reviews that were printed without his signature .
On the basis of this careful reading , Thompson frequently gave a clear , complete , and interesting description of a prose work or chose effective quotations to illustrate his discussions of poetry .
He was seldom an unmethodical critic , and his reviews generally followed a systematic pattern : a description of what the work contained , a treatment of the things that had especially interested him in it , and , wherever possible , a balancing of whatever artistic merits and faults he might have found .
It was , of course , in this drawing of the balance sheet of judgment that he most clearly displayed his desire to do full justice to an author .
Reviewing Davidson's The Testament Of An Empire Builder , for example , Thompson found that there was `` too much metrical dialectic '' .
Poetry , he said , must be `` dogmatic '' : it must not stoop to argue like a `` K.C. in cloth-of-gold '' .
Yet Davidson impressed him as a poet capable of `` sustained power , passion , or beauty '' , and he cited specific passages to illustrate not only these qualities but Davidson's command of imagery as well .
Similarly , he wrote that Laurence Housman had a `` too deliberate manner '' as well as a lack of `` inevitable felicity in diction '' .
But he admired Housman's `` subtle intellectuality '' and delighted in the inversion by which Divine Love becomes the most `` fatal '' allurement in `` Love The Tempter '' .
Of course , there were books about which nothing good could be said .
Understanding , as he did , the difficulty of the art of poetry , and believing that the `` only technical criticism worth having in poetry is that of poets '' , he felt obliged to insist upon his duty to be hard to please when it came to the review of a book of verse .
As he had done on his first Imperial sortie a year and a half before , Lewis trekked southeast through Red Russia to Kamieniec .
Thence he pushed farther south than he had ever been before into Podolia and Nogay Tartary or the Yedisan .
There , along the east bank of the Southern Bug , opposite the hamlet of Zhitzhakli a few miles north of the Black Sea , he arrived at General Headquarters of the Russian Army .
By June 19 , 1788 , he had presented himself to its Commander in Chief , the Governor of the Southern Provinces , the Director of the War College -- The Prince .
Catherine's first war against the Grand Turk had ended in 1774 with a peace treaty quite favorable to her .
By 1783 her legions had managed to annex the Crimea amid scenes of wanton cruelty and now , in this second combat with the Crescent , were aiming at suzerainty over all of the Black Sea's northern shoreline .
Through most of 1787 operations on both sides had been lackadaisical ; ;
those of 1788 were going to prove decisive , though many of their details are obscure .
To consolidate what her Navy had won , the Czarina was fortunate that , for the first time in Russian history , her land forces enjoyed absolute unity of command under her favorite Giaour .
Potemkin was directing this conflict on three fronts : in the Caucasus ; ;
along the Danube and among the Carpathians , in alliance with the Emperor Joseph's armies ; ;
and in the misty marshlands and shallow coastal waters of Nogay Tartary and Taurida , including the Crimean peninsula .
Here the war would flame to its focus , and here Lewis Littlepage had come .
Potemkin's Army of Ekaterinoslav , totaling , it was claimed , 40,000 regular troops and 6,000 irregulars of the Cossack Corps , had invested Islam's principal stronghold on the north shore of the Black Sea , the fortress town of Oczakov , and was preparing to test the Turk by land and sea .
During a sojourn of slightly more than three months Chamberlain Littlepage could see action on both elements .
As his second in command The Prince had Marshal Repnin , one-time Ambassador to Poland .
Repnin , who had a rather narrow face , longish nose , high forehead , and arching brows , looked like a quizzical Mephistopheles .
Some people thought he lacked both ability and character , but most agreed that he was noble in appearance and , for a Russian , humane .
The Marshal came to know Littlepage quite well .
At General Headquarters the newcomer in turn got to know others .
There was the Neapolitan , Ribas , a capable conniver whose father had been a blacksmith but who had fawned his way up the ladder of Catherine's and Potemkin's favor till he was now a brigadier ( and would one day be the daggerman designated to do in Czar Paul 1 , , after traveling all the way to Naples to procure just the right stiletto ) .
Then there were the distinguished foreign volunteers .
Representing the Emperor were the Prince De Ligne , still as impetuous as a youth of twenty ; ;
and General the Count Pallavicini , founder of the Austrian branch of that celebrated Italian house , a courtier Littlepage could have met at Madrid in December , 1780 .
From Milan came the young Chevalier De Litta , an officer in the service of Malta .
Out of Saxony rode the Prince of Anhalt-Bernburg , one of the Czarina's cousins and a lieutenant general in her armies , a frank , sensitive , popular soldier whose kindnesses Littlepage would `` always recall with the sincerest gratitude '' .
Though Catherine was vexed at the number of French officers streaming to the Turkish standard , there were several under her own , such as the Prince De Nassau ; ;
the energetic Parisian , Roger De Damas , three year's Littlepage's junior , to whom Nassau had taken a liking ; ;
and the artillerist , Colonel Prevost , whom the Count De Segur had persuaded to lend his technical skills to Nassau .
England contributed a young subaltern named Newton and the naval architect Samuel Bentham , brother to the economist , who for his colonel's commission was proving a godsend to the Russian fleet .
From America were the Messrs. Littlepage and Jones .
Lewis had expected to report at once to Jones's and Nassau's naval command post .
On arrival at headquarters he had , however -- in King Stanislas' words to Glayre -- `` found such favor with Pe Potemkin that he made him his aide-de-camp and up to now does not want him to go join Paul Jones .
'' So of course he stayed put .
Having done so , he began to experience all the frustrations of others who attempted to get along with Serenissimus and do a job at the same time .
The Prince's perceptions were quick and his energy monstrous , but these qualities were sapped by an Oriental lethargy and a policy of letting nothing interfere with personal passions .
At headquarters -- sufficiently far from the firing line to make you forget occasionally that you were in a war -- Lewis found that the Commander in Chief's only desk was his knees ( and his only comb , his fingers ) .
An entire theater had been set up for his diversion , with a 200-man Italian orchestra under the well-known Sarti .
In the great one's personal quarters , a portable house , almost every evening saw an elegant banquet or reception .
Lewis could let his eye caress The Prince's divan , covered with a rose-pink and silver Turkish cloth , or admire the lovely tapis , interwoven with gold , that spread across the floor .
Filigreed perfume boxes exuded the aromas of Araby .
Around the billiard tables were always at least a couple of dozen beribboned generals .
At dinner the courses were carried in by tall cuirassiers in red capes and black fur caps topped with tufts of feathers , marching in pairs like guards from a stage tragedy .
Among the visitors arriving every now and then there were , of course , women .
For if Serenissimus made the sign of the Cross with his right hand , and meant it , with his left he beckoned lewdly to any lady who happened to catch his eye .
Usually Lewis would find at headquarters one or more of The Prince's various nieces .
Right now he found Sophie De Witt , that magnificent young matron he had spotted at Kamieniec four years ago .
The Prince took her with him on every tour around the area , and it was rumored he was utilizing her knowledge of Constantinople as part of his espionage network .
One evening he passed around the banquet table a crystal cup full of diamonds , requesting every female guest to select one as a souvenir .
When a lady chanced to soil a pair of evening slippers , Brigadier Bauer was dispatched to Paris for replacements .
But if The Prince fancied women and was fascinated by foreigners , he could be haughtiness personified to his subordinates .
He had collared one of his generals in public .
His coat trimmed in sable , diamond stars of the Orders of Saints Andrew or George agleam , he was often prone to sit sulkily , eye downcast , in a Scheherazade trance .
When this happened , everything stopped .
As Littlepage noted : `` A complete picture of Prince Potemkin may be had in his 1788 operations .
He stays inactive for half the summer in front of Oczakov , a quite second-rate spot , begins to besiege it formally only during the autumn rains , and finally carries it by assault in the heart of winter .
There's a man who never goes by the ordinary road but still arrives at his goal , who gratuitously gets himself into difficulty in order to get out of it with eclat , in a word a man who creates monsters for himself in order to appear a Hercules in destroying them '' .
To help him do so The Prince had conferred control of his land forces on a soldier who was different from him in almost every respect save one : both were eccentrics of the purest ray serene .
Alexander Vasilievitch Suvorov , now in his fifty-ninth year ( ten years Potemkin's senior ) , was a thin , worn-faced person of less than medium height who looked like a professor of botany .
He had a small mouth with deep furrows on either side , a large flat nose , and penetrating blue eyes .
His gray hair was thin , his face beginning to attract a swarm of wrinkles .
He was ugly .
But Suvorov's face was also a theater of vivacity , and his tough , stooping little frame was briskness embodied .
Like all Russians he was an emotional man , and in him the emotions warred .
Kind by nature , he never refused charity to a beggar or help to anyone who asked him for it ( as Lewis would one day discover ) .
But he was perpetually engaged in a battle to command his own temper .
When Littlepage was introduced , if the General behaved as usual , the newcomer faced a staccato salvo of queries : origin ? ?
Age ? ?
Mission ? ?
Current status ? ?
Woe betide the interviewee if he answered vaguely .
Suvorov's contempt for don't-know's was proverbial ; ;
better to give an asinine answer than none at all .
Despising luxuries of any sort for a soldier , he slept on a pile of hay with his cloak as blanket .
He rose at 4:00 A.M. the year round and was apt to stride through camp crowing like a cock to wake his men .
His breakfast was tea ; ;
his dinner fell anywhere from nine to noon ; ;
his supper was nothing .
He hadn't worn a watch or carried pocket money for years because he disliked both , but highest among his hates were looking glasses : he had snatched one from an officer's grasp and smashed it to smithereens .
He kept several pet birds and liked cats well enough that if one crept by , he would mew at it in friendly fashion .
Passing dogs were greeted with a cordial bark .
Yet General Suvorov -- who had never forgotten hearing his adored Czarina declare that all truly great men had oddities -- was mad only north , northwest .
He had come to learn that a reputation for peculiarity allowed mere field officers a certain leeway at Court ; ;
in camp he knew it won you the affection of your men .
He had accordingly cultivated eccentricity to the point of second nature .
Underneath , he remained one of the best-educated Russians of his day .
He dabbled in verse , could get along well among most of the European languages , and was fluent in French and German .
He had also mastered the Cossack tongue .
For those little men with the short whiskers , shaven polls , and top knots Suvorov reserved a special esteem .
Potemkin -- as King Stanislas knew , and presently informed Littlepage -- looked on the Cossacks as geopolitical tools .
To Serenissimus such tribes as the Cossacks of the Don or those ex-bandits the Zaporogian Cossacks ( in whose islands along the lower Dnieper the Polish novelist Sienkiewicz would one day place With Fire And Sword ) were just elements for enforced resettlement in , say , Bessarabia , where , as `` the faithful of the Black Sea borders '' , he could use their presence as bargaining points in the Czarina's territorial claims against Turkey .
Suvorov saw in these scimitar-wielding skirmishers not demographic units but military men of a high potential .
He knew how to channel their exuberant disorderliness so as to transform them from mere plunderers into A-1 guerrilla fighters .
He always kept a few on his personal staff .
He often donned their tribal costumes , such as the one featuring a tall , black sheepskin hat from the top of which dangled a little red bag ornamented by a chain of worsted lace and tassels ; ;
broad red stripes down the trouser leg ; ;
broader leather belt round the waist , holding cartridges and light sabre .
Suvorov played parent not just to his Cossacks but to all his troops .
It was probably at this period that Littlepage got his first good look at the ordinary Russian soldier .
These illiterate boors conscripted from villages all across the Czarina's empire had , Suvorov may have told Lewis , just two things a commander could count on : physical fitness and personal courage .
When their levies came shambling into camp , they were all elbows , hair , and beard .
They emerged as interchangeable cogs in a faulty but formidable machine : shaved nearly naked , hair queued , greatcoated , jackbooted , and best of all -- in the opinion of the British professional , Major Semple-Lisle -- `` their minds are not estranged from the paths of obedience by those smatterings of knowledge which only serve to lead to insubordination and mutiny '' .
Mando , pleading her cause , must have said that Dr. Brown was the most distinguished physician in the United States of America , for our man poured out his symptoms and drew a madly waving line indicating the irregularity of his pulse .
`` He's got high blood pressure , too , and bum kidneys '' , the doctor said to me .
`` Transparent look , waxy skin -- could well be uremia '' .
He looked disapprovingly at an ash tray piled high with cigarette stubs , shook his head , and moved his hand back and forth in a strong negative gesture .
The little official hung his head in shame .
Seeing this , his colleague at the next desk gave a short , contemptuous laugh , pushed forward his own ash tray , innocent of a single butt , thumped his chest to show his excellent condition , and looked proud .
The doctor gravely nodded approval .
At this moment Mando came hurrying up to announce that the problem was solved and all Norton had to do was to sign a sheaf of papers .
We went out of the office and down the hall to a window where documents and more officials awaited us , the rest of the office personnel hot upon our heels .
By this time word had got around that an American doctor was on the premises .
One fellow who had liver spots held out his hands to the great healer .
It was funny but it was also touching .
`` You know '' , Norton said to me later , `` I am thinking of setting up the Klinico Brownapopolus .
I might not make any money but I'd sure have patients '' .
After luncheon we took advantage of the siesta period to try to get in touch with a few people to whom our dear friend Deppy had written .
Deppy is Despina Messinesi , a long-time member of the Vogue staff who , although born in Boston , was born there of Greek parents .
Several years of her life have been spent in the homeland , and she had written to friends to alert them of our coming .
`` All you have to do , Ilka dear , is to phone on your arrival .
They are longing to see you '' .
The wear and tear of life have taught me that very few friends of mutual friends long to see foreign strangers , but I planned on being the soul of tact , of giving them plenty of outs was there the tiniest implication that their cups were already running over without us .
My diplomacy was needless .
Greek phone service is worse than French , so that it was to be some little time before contact of any sort was established .
In the late afternoon Mando came back to fetch us , and we drove to the Acropolis .
We stopped first at the amphitheater that lies at the foot of the height crowned by the Parthenon .
The curving benches are broken , chipped , tumbled , but still in place , as are the marble chairs , the seats of honor for the legislators .
The carved statues of the frieze against the low wall are for the most part headless , but their exquisitely graceful nude and draped torsos and the kneeling Atlantes are well preserved in their perfect proportion .
Having completed our camera work , we started our climb .
I suppose the same emotion holds , if to a lesser degree , with any famous monument .
Will it live up to its reputation ? ?
The weight of fame and history is formidable , and dreary steel engravings in schoolbooks do little to quicken interest and imagination .
Uh huh , we think , looking at them , so that's the Parthenon .
And then perhaps one day we get to Athens .
We are here ! !
We've come a long way and spent a lot of money .
It had better be good .
Don't worry about the Acropolis .
It is awe-inspiring .
Probably every visitor has a favorite time for his first sight of it .
We saw it frequently afterward , but our suggestion for the very first encounter is near sunset .
The light at that time is a benediction .
The serene , majestic columns of the Parthenon , tawny in color against the pure deep blue sky , frame incredible vistas .
All we wanted to do was to stand very quietly and look and look and look .
More than twenty-four hundred years old , bruised , battered , worn and partially destroyed , combining to an astounding degree solidity and grace , it still stands , incomparable testimony to man's aspiration .
In 1687 the Turks , who had been in control of the city since the fifteenth century , with a truly shattering lack of prudence used the Parthenon as a powder magazine .
It was hit by a shell fired by the bombarding Venetian army and the great central portion of the temple was blown to smithereens .
Nearby is the temple of Athena .
The architectural feature , the caryatides upholding the portico , famous around the world as the Porch of the Maidens , was referred to airily by Mando as the Girls' Place .
Another beautiful building is the Propylaea , the entrance gate of the Acropolis .
My other nugget of art and architectural knowledge -- besides remembering that it was Ghiberti who designed the doors of the baptistery in Florence -- is the three styles of Greek columns .
For some happy reason Doric , Ionic , and Corinthian have always stuck in my mind .
Furthermore I can identify each design .
It remained , however , for Mando to teach me that Doric symbolized strength , Ionic wisdom , and Corinthian beauty , the three pillars of the ancient world .
The columns of the Parthenon are fluted Doric .
Another classic sight that gave us considerable pleasure was the Evzone sentry , in his ballet skirt with great pompons on his shoes , who was patrolling up and down in front of the palace .
Gun on shoulder , he would march smartly for a few yards , bring his heels together with a click , make a brisk pirouette , skirts flaring , and march back to his point of departure .
We did not dare speak to so exalted a being , but Norton aimed his camera and shot him , so to speak , on the rise , the split second between the halt and the turn .
The evening of our first day we drove with Christopher and Judy Sakellariadis , who were friends and patients of Norton , to dine at a restaurant on the shores of the Aegean .
On the way out Mr. Sakellariadis detoured up a special hill from which one may obtain a matchless view of the Acropolis lighted by night .
The great spectacle was a source of rancor , and Son et Lumiere , which the French were trying to promote with the Athenians , was the reason .
These performances were being staged at historical monuments throughout Europe .
By a combination of music , lighting effects , and narration , famous events that have transpired in these locations are evoked and re-created for large audiences usually to considerable acclaim .
The Acropolis had been scheduled for the treatment too , but apparently it was to take place at the time of the full moon when the Athenians themselves , out of respect for the natural beauty of the occasion , were wont to forgo their own usual nocturnal illumination .
Athenian society was split into two factions , the Philistines and the Artists .
The Artists contended that the Philistines , gross of soul , were all for having Son et Lumiere , since the French were footing the bill and the attraction , wherever it had been done , had proven popular .
This was the crassest kind of materialism and they , the Artists , would have no truck with it .
The Acropolis was unique in the world and if that imcomparable work flooded by moonlight wasn't enough for both natives and tourists , then they were quite simply barbarians and the hell with them .
It was very stimulating .
The restaurant to which the Sakellariadises took us on this night of controversy was the Asteria , on Asteria beach .
This is a public bathing beach , easily accessible by tramway from the center of Athens .
Office workers frequently go out there to lunch and swim during the siesta period , which , during the summer , lasts from two until five in the afternoon , when shops and offices are again open for business .
They close sometime after eight .
Nine o'clock is the rush hour , when the busses are jammed , and by nine-thirty the restaurants are beginning to fill .
Bedtime is late , for the balmy evenings are delightful and everyone wants to linger under the stars .
The sand is fine and pleasant , the cabanas are clean , and the parasols , green , raspberry , and butter yellow , are very gay .
Although open to the general public it is not overcrowded ; ;
the atmosphere is that of an attractive private beach club at home .
We went there a couple of times to swim and enjoyed ourselves thoroughly .
This agreeable state of affairs is explicable , I think , on two counts .
One is Greece is not yet suffering from overpopulation .
The public may still find pleasure in public places .
The other is that the charge for cabanas and parasols , though modest from an American point of view , still is a little high for many Athenians .
We were struck by the notable absence of banana skins and beer cans , but just so that we wouldn't go overboard on Greek refinement , perfection was side-stepped by a couple of braying portable radios .
Greek boys and girls also go for rock-and-roll , and the stations most tuned to are those carrying United States overseas programs .
A good deal of English was spoken on the beach , most educated Greeks learn it in childhood , and there were also American wives and children of our overseas servicemen .
For a delightful drive out of Athens I should recommend Sounion , at the end of the Attic Peninsula .
The road , a comparatively new one , is very good , winding along inlets , coves , and bays of deep and brilliant blue .
I suppose the day will inevitably come when the area will be encrusted with developments , but at present it is deserted and seductive .
Three beneficial hurdles to progress are the lack of water , electricity , and telephones .
At Sounion there is a group of beautiful columns , the ruins of a temple to Poseidon , of particular interest at that time , as active reconstruction was in progress .
Gaunt scaffoldings adjoined the ruins , and on the ground segments of columns two and a half to three feet in thickness were being fitted with sections cunningly chiseled to match exactly the fluting and proportion of the original .
Later they would be hoisted into place .
There is a mediocre restaurant at Sounion and I fed a thin little Grecian cat and gave it two saucers of water -- there was no milk -- which it lapped up as though it were nectar .
I think its thirst had never been assuaged before .
Norton and I dined one night in a sea-food restaurant in Piraeus right on the water's edge .
To enter it , you go down five or six steps from the road .
Across the road is the kitchen , and waiters bearing great trays of dishes dodge traffic as nimbly as their French colleagues at the restaurant in the Place Du Tertre in Paris .
This restaurant , too , had a cat , a dusty , thin little creature .
How can a cat be thin in a fish restaurant ? ?
But this one was .
When offered a morsel it glanced right and left and winced , obviously frightened and expecting a kick , but too hungry not to snatch the tidbit .
Greece was one of the highlights of our trip , but beginning in Greece and continuing around the world throughout Southeast Asia the treatment of animals was horrifying , ranging from callous indifference to active cruelty .
This of course was not true of the educated and sophisticated people we met , who loved their pets , but kindness is not a basic human instinct .
We met some charming Athenians , and among them our chauffeur Panyotis ranked high .
His English was limited , and the little he knew he found irritating .
A particularly galling phrase was `` O.K. , Panyotis , we have time at our disposal '' .
This he claimed was the favorite refrain of the English .
They would be lolling under a tree sipping Ouzo , relishing the leisurely life , assuring him that the day was yet young .
`` Let him become honest , and they discard him .
-- But let him be ready to invent whatever falsehood -- to assail whatever character -- and to prostitute his paper to whatever ends -- and they hug him to their heart .
In proportion to the degradation of his moral worth , is the increase of his worth to them '' .
To exonerate the legislature and thereby extricate himself from a sticky situation , Pike took another course and made it appear that the legislature had been bilked .
He claimed in his attacks that Woodruff , with scurrilous underhandedness , had deliberately written an ambiguous bid that had so confused the honest members of the legislature that they had awarded him the contract without knowing what they were doing .
The charge was so farfetched that Woodruff paid little attention to it , and answered Pike in a rather bored way , wearily declaring that a `` new hand '' was pumping the bellows of the Crittenden organ , and concluding : `` In a controversy with an adversary so utterly destitute of moral principles , even a triumph would entitle the victor to no laurels .
The game is not worth the ammunition it would cost .
We therefore leave the writer to the enjoyment of the unenvied reputation which the personal abuse he has heaped on us will entitle him to from the low and vulgar herd to which he belongs '' .
Despite Woodruff's continuing refusal to debate with Pike through the columns of his newspaper , Pike did not let up his attack for a moment .
Over the months he became a political gadfly with an incessant barrage of satirical poems ridiculing Woodruff , the `` Casca '' letters belittling Woodruff , and long analytical articles vilifying Woodruff .
So persistent were these attacks that in March of the following year , Woodruff was finally moved to action , and Pike was to learn his first lesson in frontier politics , the subtle art of diversion .
To attack Pike directly would gain Woodruff little , for as a penniless newcomer Pike had nothing to lose .
By this time Woodruff had accurately measured Pike as a man of great personal pride , a man who would fly into a towering rage if his integrity were questioned , and who would be anxious to avenge himself .
Pike's honor would now come under attack , but not by Woodruff himself .
The charges would be made in The Gazette by an anonymous correspondent , and Pike would be so busy trying to track down the illusive character assassin that he would forget about harassing Woodruff .
The strategy worked perfectly .
Pike was stunned by the first blast against his character , which was published in the March 4th issue of The Gazette under the name `` Vale '' .
The anonymous correspondent did not resort to innuendoes .
He called Pike a thief .
He said Pike had stolen mules from Harris during the Santa Fe expedition ; ;
he accused Pike of continuing his sticky-fingered career in Arkansas with the theft of some otter skins in Van Buren .
The charges caught Pike off balance , coming as they did from an unexpected quarter .
Outraged , he used the Advocate of March 7th for a denial , sending immediately to Santa Fe and Van Buren for documents to vindicate himself , and demanding that Woodruff reveal the name of this perfidious slanderer who disguised himself under a pastoral pseudonym .
Woodruff said nothing , and Pike , frustrated , stormed throughout Little Rock in an unsuccessful search for `` Vale '' , asking his friends to keep their ears open .
Finally he learned through the grapevine that the culprit might be one James W. Robinson in Pope County .
Without further inquiry , Pike jumped to the conclusion that Robinson was guilty , and , following the honorable route that would eventually lead to the dueling ground , sent a message to Robinson through his friends , demanding that he either confirm or deny his complicity .
Robinson did neither .
To Pike , silence was tantamount to an admission of guilt , and he determined to get Robinson onto the dueling ground at all costs .
On April 11th he wrote an open letter in The Advocate , making it known `` to the world that Jas. W. Robinson is by his own admission a base liar and a slanderer '' .
If Robinson was a liar and a slanderer , he was also a very canny gentleman , for nothing that Pike could do would pry so much as a single word out of him .
Preoccupied with his own defense and his attempts to get Robinson to fight , Pike lessened his attacks on Woodruff , and finally stopped them altogether .
And Pike never did find out if Robinson was really responsible for the `` Vale '' letter .
Woodruff's strategy had been immensely successful .
It took Pike a long time to realize what Woodruff had done , and it had a profound effect on him .
Once he learned a lesson , he never forgot it .
In the next few months of comparative silence , Pike waited patiently until conditions were perfect for a new attack , and then , displaying a remarkable grasp of the subtleties of political infighting , gained from his first bout with Woodruff , he used these changed conditions to excellent advantage .
Shortly after the `` Vale '' incident , a rift began to develop between William Woodruff and Governor Pope .
One-armed , gruff , frugally honest , Governor Pope had been the ideal man to assume office in Arkansas after the disgraceful antics of political bosses like Crittenden , and he ruled the state with an iron fist , tolerating no nonsense .
Woodruff had supported him all the way , both as a chief executive and as a man .
Besides being political allies , they were also friends .
This warm relationship came to an abrupt end in June of 1834 when the National Congress appropriated $3,000 for compiling and printing the laws of Arkansas Territory , and , taking note of the recent wave of corruption in the legislature , left it to the governor to award the contract .
Woodruff wanted this political windfall very badly , and everyone assumed that he would get it because he was a close friend of the governor and his stanchest supporter .
After all , Woodruff owned a competent printing plant and was the logical man for the job .
But because the governor was determined that friendship should not influence him one way or the other , he looked for a printer with a knowledge of the law ( which Woodruff did not have ) , and awarded the contract to a lawyer named John Steele who had started a newspaper in Helena the year before .
Woodruff was furious .
Considering the governor's act a personal rebuff , he aired his feelings in The Gazette on August 26 , 1834 : :
`` We think the governor treated us rather shabbily , to say the least of it .
It is but justice to Mr. Steele for us to add that , in the above remarks , nothing is intended to his disparagement , either as a lawyer or as a printer .
He got a good fat job and we congratulate him on his good luck .
We hope that he will execute it in a manner that will entitle him to credit '' .
As summer cooled into fall and winter , even so the relationship between the two men continued to grow colder by the day , and by December of 1834 it was icy .
It was at this point that Pike decided to capitalize on the bad feelings between the two men .
The eventual prize in this new battle was the public printing contract that Woodruff still held .
From his first bout with the canny Woodruff , Pike had learned that it was better not to attack him directly , so , harping on the theme that the cost of printing was too high , he condemned the governor for permitting such a state of affairs to exist .
To document his charge , Pike set up two parallel columns in The Advocate showing the price charged by The Gazette and the considerably lower price for which the work could be done elsewhere .
Then he called on the governor to explain why .
The governor was not used to having his integrity questioned , and he promptly passed the charges on to Woodruff , demanding that Woodruff answer them .
If Woodruff could not furnish a strong explanation , the governor insisted that he lower his prices in accord with the scale printed in The Advocate .
Woodruff was now impaled on the horns of a dilemma .
As a proud man , his prestige would suffer if he let Pike dictate to him through the governor's office , but to lower his prices would be tantamount to an admission that they had been too high in the first place .
As a consequence , he did neither .
Very angry at Woodruff , the governor used his personal influence to have the printing contract withdrawn from The Gazette and awarded to the lowest bidder , which , by a strange coincidence , happened to be Pike's Advocate .
And , for the moment at least , the governor now found himself allied with the head of the Crittenden faction he had formerly opposed , and Pike was credited with a clear triumph over Woodruff .
But in the confused atmosphere of frontier politics , alliances were as quickly broken as they were formed , and as Pike came to favor with the governor of the Territory , the governor fell out of favor with the President of the United States .
On January 28 , 1835 , Andrew Jackson removed Pope from office and elevated Territorial Secretary William S. Fulton to the position .
Fulton was a very close friend of Jackson , and had been his private secretary for a number of years in the old days .
As a stanch party man and a rabid Democrat , he had little tolerance for Whigs like Pike , and Pike lost any immediate personal advantage his victory over Woodruff might have gained him .
2
; ;
as Pike proved himself adept in the political arena , he also became a social lion in the village of Little Rock , where he served as a symbol of the culture that the ladies of the town were striving so eagerly to cultivate .
After all , Pike was an established poet and his work had been published in the respectable periodicals of that center of American culture , Boston .
His accomplishments , and the fact that he was resident , did much to offset the unkind words travelers used to describe Little Rock after a visit there .
For some reason , none of them were impressed with the territorial capital .
The internationally known sportsman and traveler Friedrich Gerstacker was typical of its detractors in the mid-thirties .
`` Little Rock is a vile , detestable place .
'' He wrote .
`` Little Rock is , without any flattery , one of the dullest towns in the United States and I would not have remained two hours in the place , if I had not met with some good friends who made me forget its dreariness '' .
Pike enjoyed his new social position tremendously , and cultivated in himself those traits necessary to its preservation .
He was especially popular with women , for , like the romantic poetry he wrote , he was personally gracious , gallant , and chivalrous .
He again began to play the violin , and tucking the instrument beneath his chin , performed soulful and romantic airs to match the expressions on the faces of the lovely women who gathered to hear him .
His artistic accomplishments guaranteed him entry into any social gathering .
He composed songs and set them to music and sang them in a soft , melodious voice , and when his audience had had enough of music he would discourse on politics or tell stories of his western adventures guaranteed to excite the emotions of men and women alike .
The bulk of his early reputation , however , came not from his poetry or his music , but from his excellence as an orator .
By 1834 the art of oratory had reached a very high level in the United States as a literary form .
The orator of this period , in order to earn a reputation , had to pay close attention to the formal composition of his speech , judging how it would appear in print as well as the effect it would have on the audience that heard it .
Very soon after his arrival in Little Rock , Pike had joined one of the most influential organizations in town , the Little Rock Debating Society , and it was with this group that he made his debut as an orator , being invited to deliver the annual Fourth of July address the club sponsored every year .
Samuel Gorton , founder of Warwick , was styled by the historian Samuel Greene Arnold `` one of the most remarkable men who ever lived '' .
A biographer called him `` the premature John the Baptist of New England Transcendentalism '' .
The historian Charles Francis Adams called him `` a crude and half-crazy thinker '' .
His contemporaries in Massachusetts called him an arch-heretic , a beast , a miscreant , a proud and pestilent seducer , a prodigious minter of exorbitant novelties .
Edward Rawson , secretary of the colony of Massachusetts Bay , described him as `` a man whose spirit was stark drunk with blasphemies and insolence , a corrupter of the truth , a disturber of the peace wherever he comes '' .
Nathaniel Morton stated he `` was deeply leavened with blasphemous and familistical opinions '' .
He was thrown out , more or less , from Boston , Plymouth , Pocasset , Newport , and Providence .
On the other hand , Dr. Ezra Styles recorded the following testimony of John Angell , the last disciple of Gorton : ``
He said Gorton was a holy man ; ;
wept day and night for the sins and blindness of the world had a long walk through the trees and woods by his house , where he constantly walked morning and evening , and even in the depths of the night , alone by himself , for contemplation and the enjoyment of the dispensation of light .
He was universally beloved by his neighbours , and the Indians , who esteemed him , not only as a friend , but one high in communion with God in Heaven '' .
Gorton sometimes signed himself `` a professor of the mysteries of Christ '' .
There is plenty more to recommend Gorton , the facts of whose life are given in The Life And Times Of Samuel Gorton , by Adelos Gorton .
He fought like a fiend for the helpless and oppressed , worked for the abolition of slavery , helped the Quakers and Indians , and worked against the prosecution of witches .
He defied the Boston hierarchy , and after they sent a small army to get him he befuddled the court , including John Cotton , with one of the most complicated religious discourses ever heard .
Samuel Gorton was born at Gorton , England , near the present city of Manchester , about 1592 .
Although he did not attend any celebrated schools or universities , he was a master of Greek and Hebrew and could read the Bible in the original .
He worked as a `` clothier '' in London , but was greatly concerned with religion .
Gorton left England , he said , `` to enjoy libertie of conscience in respect to faith towards God , and for no other end '' .
With his wife and three or more children he arrived in Boston in March , 1637 , and soon found it was no place for anyone looking for liberty of conscience .
Roger Williams had recently been thrown out , and Anne Hutchinson and her Antinomians were slugging it out with the powers-that-be .
Gorton and his family moved to Plymouth .
Soon he was in trouble there , for defending a woman who was accused of smiling in church .
She was Ellen Aldridge , a widow of good repute who was employed by Gorton's wife and lived with the family .
The report was : ``
It had been whispered privately that she had smiled in the congregation , and the Governor Prence sent to knoe her business , and command , after punishment as the bench see fit , her departure and also anyone who brought her to the place from which she came ' '' .
Gorton said they were preparing to deport her as a vagabond , and to escape the shame she fled to the woods for several days , returning at night .
He advised the poor woman not to appear in court as what she was charged with was not in violation of law .
Gorton appeared for her , however , and what he told the magistrates must have been plenty , for he was charged with deluding the court , fined , and told to leave the colony within fourteen days .
He left in a storm for Pocasset , December 4 , 1638 .
His wife was in delicate health and nursing an infant with measles .
The unconquerable Mrs. Hutchinson was residing at Pocasset , after having been excommunicated by the Boston church and thrown out of the colony .
One can imagine that with her and Gorton there it was no place for anyone with weak nerves .
William Coddington , who was running the colony , felt constrained to move seven miles south where , with others -- as mentioned above -- he founded Newport .
When , in March , 1640 , the two towns were united under Coddington , Gorton claimed the union was irregular and illegally constituted and that it had never been sanctioned by the majority of freeholders .
Then he became involved in a ruckus remarkably similar to the one in Plymouth .
A cow owned by an old woman trespassed on Gorton's land .
While driving the cow back home the woman was assaulted by a servant maid of Gorton .
The old woman complained to the deputy governor , who ordered the servant brought before the court .
Gorton reverted to his Plymouth tactics , refused to let her go , and appeared himself before the Portsmouth grand jury .
During the trial he told off the jury , called them `` Just Asses '' and called a freeman `` a saucy boy and Jack-an-Apes '' .
He was jailed and banished .
Gorton then moved to Providence and soon put the town in a turmoil .
He held that no group of colonists could set up or maintain a government without royal sanction .
Since Rhode Island at that time did not have such sanction , his opinion was not popular .
Roger Williams wrote his friend Winthrop as follows : ``
Master Gorton , having foully abused high and low at Aquidneck is now bewitching and bemaddening poor Providence , both with his unclean and foul censures of all the ministers of this country ( for which myself have in Christ's name withstood him ) , and also denying all visible and external ordinances in depth of Familism : almost all suck in his poison , as at first they did at Aquidneck .
Some few and myself withstand his inhabitation and town privileges , without confession and reformation of his uncivil and inhuman practices at Portsmouth ; ;
yet the tide is too strong against us , and I fear ( if the framer of hearts help not ) it will force me to little Patience , a little isle next to your Prudence '' .
Williams also stated : `` Our peace was like the peace of a man who hath the tertian ague '' .
Providence finally managed to get Gorton out of the town , and he and some friends bought land at Pawtuxet on the west side of Narragansett Bay , five miles south but still within the jurisdiction of the Providence colony .
This town should not be confused with Pawtucket , just north of Providence , or Pawcatuck , Connecticut , on the Pawcatuck River , opposite Westerly , Rhode Island .
Up to now , Gorton had been looking for trouble , and now that he was trying to get away from it , trouble started looking for him .
Upon intelligence that the formidable agitator was to favor them with his presence , the benighted inhabitants of Pawtuxet , alas , gave their allegiance to Massachusetts and asked that colony to expel the newcomers .
As it was the custom of that alert colony to take over the property of persons asking for protection , this was an act roughly equivalent to throwing open the door to a pack of wolves and saying `` Come and get it '' .
Gorton and company , however , promptly bought land from Miantonomi a few miles south of Pawtuxet , extending from the present Gaspee Point south to Warwick Neck and twenty miles inland .
The settlement was called Shawomet .
It was not within the jurisdiction of anybody or anything , including Providence and Massachusetts .
If Gorton wanted peace and quiet for his complicated meditations this is where he should have had it .
Instead of that he was engulfed by bedlam .
Pomham and Soconoco , a couple of minor sachems ( of something less than exalted character ) under Miantonomi , declared that they had never assented to the sale of land to Gorton and had never received anything for it .
Following the glorious lead of the heroes of Pawtuxet , they also submitted themselves to the protection of Massachusetts .
One historical authority presents laborious and circuitous testimony tending to arouse suspicion that Massachusetts was behind the clouds settling down on the embattled Gorton .
However , the General Court at Boston ordered the purchasers of Shawomet to appear before them to answer the sachems' claim .
The purchasers rejected the order in two letters written in vigorous terms .
Then Massachusetts switched to its standard tactics .
It pointed out twenty-six instances of blasphemy in the letters , and ordered the writers to submit or force of arms would be used .
The next week , forty soldiers were sent to get the miscreants .
The latter tried to arbitrate through a delegation from Providence , which offer was declined by the invaders .
The Commissioners at Boston wrote the victims to see their misdeeds and repent or they should `` look upon them as men prepared for slaughter '' .
At Shawomet , women and children fled in terror across the Bay .
The men fortified a blockhouse and got ready to fight , but meanwhile appealed to the King and again tried to arbitrate .
Gorton evidently still had plenty to learn about Massachusetts , but he was learning fast .
Governor Winthrop wrote : ``
You may do well to take notice , that besides the title to land between the English and the Indians there , there are twelve of the English that have subscribed their names to horrible and detestable blasphemies , who are rather to be judged as blasphemous than they should delude us by winning time under pretence of arbitration '' .
The attack started on October 2 , 1643 , and the Gortonists held out for a day and a night .
The attackers sent for more soldiers , and the defenders , to save bloodshed , surrendered under the promise that they would be treated as neighbors .
Promptly their livestock was taken and according to Gorton the soldiers were ordered to knock down anyone who should utter a word of insolence , and run through anyone who might step out of line .
When the captives arrived in Boston , `` the chaplain ( of their captors ) went to prayers in the open streets , that the people might take notice what they had done in a holy manner , and in the name of the Lord '' .
Gorton and ten of his friends were thrown in jail .
On Sunday they refused to attend church .
The magistrates were determined to compel them .
The prisoners agreed , provided they might speak after the sermon , which was permitted .
Here was Gorton's chance to indulge in something at which he was supreme .
The Boston elders were great at befuddling the opposition with torrents of ecclesiastical obscurities , but Gorton was better .
Reverend Cotton preached to them about Demetrius and the shrines of Ephesus .
Gorton replied with blasts that scandalized the congregation .
At the trial which took place later , the Pomham matter was completely omitted .
The Gortonists were charged with blasphemy and tried for their lives .
Four ecclesiastical questions were presented by the General Court to Gorton : `` 1 .
Whether the Fathers , who died before Christ was born of the Virgin Mary , were justified and saved only by the blood which he shed , and the death which he suffered after his incarnation ? ?
2 .
Whether the only price of our redemption were not the death of Christ on the cross , with the rest of his sufferings and obediences , in the time of his life here , after he was born of the Virgin Mary ? ?
3 .
Who was the God whom he thinke we serve ? ?
4 .
What he means when he saith , wee worship the starre of our God Remphan , Chion , Moloch '' ? ?
Gorton answered in writing .
All of the elders except three voted for death , but a majority of the deputies refused to sanction the sentence .
Seven of the prisoners were sentenced to be confined in irons for as long as it pleased the court , set to work and , if they broke jail or proclaimed heresy , to be executed if convicted .
The three others got off easier .
The convicts were put in chains , paraded before the congregation at the Reverend Cotton's lecture as an example , and sent to prisons in various towns , where they languished all winter , chains included .
When Fred wheeled him back into his room , the big one looking out on the back porch , and put him to bed , Papa told him he was very tired but that he had enjoyed greatly the trip downtown .
`` I've been cooped up so long '' , he added .
Getting out again , seeing old friends , had given his spirits a lift .
That night after supper I went back over to 48 Spruce Street -- Ralph and I at that time were living at 168 Chestnut -- and Ralph went with me .
Papa was still elated over his afternoon visit downtown .
`` Baby , I saw a lot of old friends I hadn't seen in a long time '' , he told me , his eyes bright .
`` It was mighty good for the old man to get out again '' .
The next day he seemed to be in fairly good shape and still in excellent spirits .
But a few days after Fred's return he began hemorrhaging and that was the beginning of early and complete disintegration .
It began in the morning , and very quickly the hemorrhage was a massive one .
We got Dr. Glenn to him as quickly as we could , and we wired Tom of Papa's desperate condition .
The hemorrhage was in the prostate region ; ;
Dr. Glenn saw at once what had happened .
`` He has lost much blood '' , he said .
`` It'll take a lot to replace it '' .
`` Dr. Glenn , I've got a lot of blood '' , Fred spoke up , `` plenty of it .
Let me give Papa blood '' .
The doctor agreed , but explained that it would be necessary first to check Fred's blood to ascertain whether or not it was of the same type as Papa's .
To give a patient the wrong type of blood , said the doctor , would likely kill him .
That was in the days before blood banks , of course , and transfusions had to be given directly from donor to patient .
One had to find a donor , and usually very quickly , whose blood corresponded with the patient's .
And then it took considerably longer to make preparations for giving transfusions .
They had to take blood samples to the laboratory to test them , for one thing , and there was much required preliminary procedure .
They made the tests and came to Fred ; ;
by now it was perhaps two days or longer after Papa had begun hemorrhaging .
`` Fred , your blood matches your father's , all right '' , Dr. Glenn said .
`` But we aren't going to let you give him any '' .
`` But why in the name of God can't I give my father blood '' ? ?
Fred demanded .
`` Why can't I , Doctor '' ? ?
`` Because , Fred , it could do him no good .
It's too late now .
He's past helping .
He's as good as gone '' .
And in a few minutes Papa was dead .
It was well past midnight .
Papa had left us about the same hour of the night that Ben had passed on .
The date was June 20 , 1922 .
`` W. O. Wolfe , prominent business man and pioneer resident of this section , died shortly after midnight Tuesday at his home 48 Spruce Street '' , the Asheville Times of Wednesday , June 21 , announced .
`` Mr. Wolfe had been in declining health for many years and death was not unexpected '' .
A biographical sketch followed .
Funeral services were held Thursday afternoon at four o'clock at the home .
Beloved Dr. R. F. Campbell , our First Presbyterian Church pastor , was in charge .
The burial was out in Riverside Cemetery .
All about him stood tombstones his own sensitive great hands had fashioned .
A few years before his death Papa had agreed with Mama to make a joint will with her in which it would be provided that in the event of the death of either of them an accounting would be made to their children whereby each child would receive a bequest of $5000 cash .
At his death Fred and Ralph , my husband , were named executors of the estate under the terms of the will .
Fred and Ralph qualified as executors and paid off what debts were currently due , and they were all current , since Papa was never one to allow bills to go unpaid .
The bills were principally for hospitalization and doctors' fees during the last years of his life , and when he died he owed in the main only current doctor's bills .
After they had paid all his debts and the funeral costs , Ralph and Fred had some fourteen thousand dollars , as I remember , with which to pay the bequests .
This , manifestly , would not provide $5000 to each of the surviving five children .
So what Fred and Ralph did was to attempt to prorate the money fairly by taking into account what each of the five had received , if anything , from the estate before Papa's death .
Consequently , Fred and Tom , the two who had been provided college educations , signed statements to the effect that each had received his bequest in full , and Effie and I were each allotted $5000 .
Frank had been given about half his legacy to use in a business venture before Papa's death ; ;
he was given the difference between that amount and $5000 .
Tom had received four years of education at the University of North Carolina and two at Harvard , and Fred had been in and out of Georgia Tech and Carneigie Tech and part of the time had been a self-help student .
So , because he had received less than Tom , it was felt proper that Fred should receive the few hundred dollars that remained .
And that's how Papa's estate was divided .
Papa , I should emphasize , had been an invalid the last several years of his life ; ;
his hospital and doctor bills had been large and his income had been cut until he was receiving little except small rentals on some properties he still owned .
Had he been able to escape this long siege of invalidism , I'm convinced , Papa would have left a sizable estate .
But he had succeeded well , we agreed .
He had left us a legacy far more valuable than houses and lands and stocks and bonds .
For years Papa and Mama had been large taxpayers .
I recall that several years their taxes exceeded $800 .
In those years of lower property valuations and lower tax rates , that payment represented ownership of much property .
`` Merciful God , Julia '' ! !
I have known Papa to exclaim on getting his tax bill , `` we're going to the dogs '' ! !
But he never expected to do that .
And he didn't , by a long shot ! !
35 .
In the spring of his second year at Harvard , Tom had been offered a job at Northwestern University as an instructor in the English Department .
But he had delayed accepting this job , and as he was leaving to come home to Papa in response to our telegram , he dropped a postcard to Miss McCrady , head of the Harvard Appointment Office , asking her please to write Northwestern authorities and explain the circumstances .
Actually Tom had been postponing giving them an answer , I'm confident , because he did not want to go out there to teach .
In fact , he didn't want to teach anywhere .
He wanted to go back to Harvard for another year of playwriting .
But Papa's death had further complicated the financing of Tom's hoped-for third year , and for the weeks following it Tom did not know whether his return to Harvard could be arranged .
But things were worked out in the family and late in August he wrote Miss McCrady an explanatory letter in which he told her that matters at home had been in an unsettled condition after Papa's death and he had not known whether he would stay at home with Mama , accept the Northwestern job , or return to Harvard .
But he was happy to tell her that his finances were now in such condition that he could go back to Harvard for a third year with Professor Baker .
And that's what he did .
That third year he wrote plays with a fury .
I believe there are seventeen short plays by Tom now housed in the Houghton Library at Harvard ; ;
I think I'm right in that figure .
That fall he submitted to Professor Baker the first acts and outlines of the following acts of several plays , six of them , according to some of his associates , and he also worked on a play that he first called Niggertown , the material for which he had collected during the summer at home .
Later this play would be called Welcome To Our City .
In the spring , it must have been , he began working on the play that he called The House , which later would be Mannerhouse .
That spring Welcome To Our City was selected for production by the 47 Workshop and it was staged in the middle of May .
It ran two nights , and though it was generally praised , there was considerable criticism of its length .
It ran until past one o'clock .
That was Tom's weakness ; ;
it was demonstrated , many critics would later point out , in the length of his novels .
In this play there were so many characters and so much detail .
Tom never knew how to condense , to boil down .
He was always concerned with life , and he tried to picture it whole ; ;
he wanted nothing compressed , tight .
He was a big man , and he wanted nothing little , squeezed ; ;
he despised parsimony , and particularly of words .
In this play there were some thirty or more named characters and I don't know how many more unnamed .
In describing it to Professor Baker after it had been chosen for production , he defended his great array of characters by declaring that he had included that many not because `` I didn't know how to save paint '' , but because the play required them .
And he threatened someday to write a play `` with fifty , eighty , a hundred people -- a whole town , a whole race , a whole epoch '' .
He said he would do it , though probably nobody would produce it , for his own `` soul's ease and comfort '' .
That summer Tom attended the summer session at Harvard , but he did not ask Mama to send him back in the fall .
Instead , he went down to New York and submitted Welcome To Our City to the Theatre Guild , which had asked him to let them have a look at it after Professor Baker had recommended it highly .
He hung around New York , waiting to hear whether they would accept it for production and in that time came down to Asheville and also paid a short visit to Chapel Hill , where with almost childish delight he visited old friends and favorite campus spots .
On returning to New York he had a job for several weeks ; ;
it was visiting University of North Carolina alumni in New York to ask them for contributions to the Graham Memorial Building fund .
The Graham Memorial would be the campus student union honoring the late and much beloved Edward Kidder Graham , who had been president when Tom entered the university .
Well , the Theatre Guild kept that play , and kept it , and finally in December they turned it down .
But they would reconsider it , they assured him , if he would rewrite it .
Tom told me about it , how one evening he went over to see the Theatre Guild man .
This man , Tom said , had the play shut up in his desk , I believe , and when Tom sat down , he pulled it out and apologetically told Tom that they wouldn't be able to use it .
Tom said he almost burst into tears , he was so disappointed and put out .
The man , Tom said , explained that it was not only too long and detailed but that as it stood it wasn't the sort of thing the public wanted .
The public , Tom said the man told him , wanted realism , and his play wasn't that .
It was fantastic writing , beautiful writing , the man declared , but the public , he insisted , wanted realism .
Tom was not willing to revise the play according to the plan the man suggested .
Such a revision , he said , would ruin it , would change his whole conception of the play as well as the treatment .
He thought about it and he told the man he just couldn't do it over in accordance with the suggestions he had made .
It was not until we had returned to the city to live , while I was still at Brown and Sharpe's , that I felt the full impact of evangelical Christianity .
I came under the spell of a younger group in the church led by the pastor's older son .
The spirit of this group was that we were -- and are -- living in a world doomed to eternal punishment , but that God through Jesus Christ has provided a way of escape for those who confess their sins and accept salvation .
There are millions who accept this doctrine , but few indeed are those who accept it so truly that the fate of humanity lies as a weight on their souls night and day .
This group in Park Place Church was made up of the earnest few .
I was drawn deeper and deeper into these concerns and responsibilities .
I engaged more and more in religious activities .
Besides Church and Sunday School I went to out-of-door meetings on the sidewalk at the church door .
I went to an afternoon service at the Aj .
I went to the Christian Endeavor Society and to the evening service of the church .
Much of this lacked the active support of the pastor .
The young people were self-energizing , and I was energized .
Once or twice my father asked me if I wasn't overdoing a bit in my churchgoing .
Meanwhile I myself was not yet saved .
At least I had been unable to lay hold on the experience of conversion .
Try as I might to confess my sins and accept salvation , no answer came to me from heaven .
Finally , after years , I gave up .
The basic difficulty , I suppose , was in my ultimate inability to feel a burden of sin from which I sought relief .
I was familiar with Pilgrim's Progress , which I read as literature .
No load of sin had been laid on my shoulders , nor did earnest effort enable me to become conscious of one .
There is , of course , the doctrine of original sin , which asserts that each of us as individuals partakes of the guilt of our first ancestor .
In the rhyming catechism this doctrine is worded thus : `` In Adam's fall We sin-ned all '' .
This doctrine was repugnant to my moral sense .
I did not feel it presumptuous to expect that the Creator would be at least as just as the most righteous of His creatures ; ;
and the doctrine of original sin is compounded of injustice .
Some of these thoughts -- not all of them -- have taken organized form in later years .
The actual impelling force which severed me from evangelical effort was of another sort .
I became disgusted at being so preoccupied with the state of my own miserable soul .
I found myself becoming one of that group of people who , in Carlyle's words , `` are forever gazing into their own navels , anxiously asking ' Am I right , am I wrong ' '' ? ?
I bethought me of the Lord's Prayer , and these words came to mind : `` Thy kingdom come , Thy will be done , on earth as it is in heaven '' .
They have remained on the opened page of my mind in all the years which since have passed .
From that time to this my religious concern is that I might give effective help to the bringing in of God's kingdom on earth .
I do not claim to be free from sin , or from the need for repentance and forgiveness .
In my experience the assurance of forgiveness comes only when I have confessed to the wronged one and have made as full reparation as I can devise .
There was one further step in my religious progress .
This was taken after I came to live in Springfield , and it was made under the guidance of the Reverend Raymond Beardslee , a young preacher who came to the Congregational Church there at about the same time that I moved from New York .
His father was a professor at Hartford Theological Seminary , and from him he acquired a conviction , which he passed along to me , that there is in the universe of persons a moral law , the law of love , which is a natural law in the same sense as is the physical law .
It is most important that we recognize the law of love as being unbreakable in all personal relationships , whether individually , socially or as between whole nations of people .
If obeyed , the law brings order and satisfaction .
If disobeyed , the result is turmoil and chaos .
As we observe moral law and physical law they appear as being inevitable .
We can conceive of no alternatives .
Their basis seems deeper than mere authority .
They are not true because scientists or prophets say they are true .
It is not the authority of God Himself which makes them true .
Because God is what He is , the laws of the universe , material and spiritual , are what they are .
Deity and Law are one and inseparable .
With this conviction , the partition between the sacred and the secular disappears .
One's daily work becomes sacred , since it is performed in the field of influence of the moral law , dealing as it does with people as well as with matter and energy .
In his book Civilization And Ethics Albert Schweitzer faces the moral problems which arise when moral law is recognized in business life , for example .
His Ethics defines `` possessions as the property of the community , of which the individual is sovereign steward .
One serves society by conducting a business from which a certain number of employees draw their means of subsistence ; ;
another by giving away his property in order to help his fellow man .
Each will decide on his own course somewhere between these two extreme cases according to the sense of responsibility which is determined for him by the particular circumstances of his own life .
No one is to judge others '' .
He is uncompromising in assigning guilt to the man who finds it necessary to inflict or permit injury to one individual or group for the sake of a larger good .
For this decision a man must take personal responsibility .
Says he , `` I may never imagine that in the struggle between personal and supra-personal responsibility it is possible to make a compromise between the ethical and the purposive in the shape of a relative ethic ; ;
or to let the ethical be superseded by the purposive .
On the contrary it is my duty to make my own decision as between the two '' .
Schweitzer seems , in fact , to acquire for himself a burden of sin , not bequeathed by Adam , but accumulated in the inevitable judgments which life requires of him as between greater and lesser responsibilities .
This viewpoint I find interesting , but it has never weighed on my soul .
Perhaps it should have .
My own experience has followed simpler lines .
An uncompromising belief in the moral law has the advantage of making religion natural , even as physical law is natural .
Neither the engineer nor the ordinary citizen feels any self-consciousness in obeying the laws of matter and energy , nor can he achieve a sense of self-righteousness in such obedience .
To obey the moral law is just ordinary common sense , applied to a neglected field .
Religion thus becomes integrated with life .
This truth that the moral law is natural has other important corollaries .
One of them is that it gives meaning and purpose to life .
In seeking for such meaning and purpose , Albert Schweitzer seized upon the concept of the `` sacredness of life '' .
It is puzzling to the occidental mind ( to mine at least ) to assign `` sacredness '' to animal , insect , and plant life .
These lives are in themselves outside of the moral order and are unburdened with moral responsibility .
There is indeed a moral responsibility on man himself , for his own soul's sake , to respect lower life and to avoid the infliction of suffering , but this viewpoint Schweitzer rejects .
So far as `` sacredness '' inheres in any aspect of creation it seems to me to be found in human personality , whether in Lambarene , Africa , or in Washington , D.C. .
One cannot read the records of scientists , officials and travelers who have penetrated to the minds of the most savage races without realizing that each individual met with is a person .
Read , for instance , in Malcolm MacDonald's Borneo People of Segura and her wise father Tomonggong Koh , and her final adjustment to encroaching civilization .
Above all read in Jens Bjerre's The Last Cannibal Show the old man of the Wailbri tribe ( not cannibals ) in central Australia gave to the white man his choicest possession , while the tears streamed down his face .
The Australian aborigine is the conventional exemplar of degraded humanity ; ;
yet here was a depth of sensibility which is lacking in a considerable portion of the beneficiaries of our civilization .
Persons , whether white , black , brown or yellow , are a concern of God .
Respect for personality is a privilege and a duty for us as brothers .
Such is the field for exercising our reverence .
As to our action , let us align ourselves with the purpose expressed by Jesus in the Lord's Prayer : `` Thy kingdom come , Thy will be done , on earth as it is in heaven '' .
With the knowledge that the kingdom comes by obedience to the moral law in our relations with all people , we have a firm intellectual grasp on both the means and the ends of our lives .
This intellectual approach to spiritual life suited me well , because I was never content to lead a divided life .
As I have said , words from Tennyson remain ever in my memory : `` That mind and soul , according well , May make one music as before '' .
Let us now give some thought to the soul .
When the young biologist , Dr. Ballard , began to show interest in our daughter Elizabeth , this induced a corresponding interest , on our part , in him .
I asked one day what he was doing .
He told me that he had a big newt and a little newt and that he was transplanting a big eye of the big newt onto the little newt and a little eye of the little newt onto the big newt .
He was then noting that the big eye on the little newt hung back until the little eye had grown up to it , while the little eye on the big newt grew rapidly until it was as big as the other .
Then I asked , `` What does that teach you '' ? ?
Said he , `` It teaches me to wonder '' .
This was a profound statement .
In the face of the unfolding universe , our ultimate attitude is that of wonder .
Wonder is indeed the intellectual gateway to the spiritual world .
Gone are the days when , in the nineteenth century , scientists thought that they were close to the attainment of complete knowledge of the physical universe .
For them only a little more needed to be learned , and then all physical knowledge could be neatly sorted , packaged and put in the inventory to be drawn on for the solution of any human problem .
This complacency was blown to bits by the relativity of Einstein , the revelation of the complex anatomy of the atom and the discovery of the expanding universe .
None of these discoveries were neatly rounded off bits of knowledge .
Each faded out into the unexplored areas of the future .
It is as if we , in our center of human observation , from time to time penetrate more deeply into the unknown .
As our radius of penetration , R , increases , the area of new knowledge increases by Af , and the total of human knowledge becomes measured in terms of Af .
Wonder grows .
It is endless .
There are some people , intelligent people , who seem to be untouched by the sea of wonder in which we are immersed and in which we spend our lives .
One such is Abraham Meyer , the writer of a recent book , Speaking Of Man .
This is a straightforward denial of the spiritual world and a vigorous defense of pure materialism .
His inability to wonder vitiates his argument .
The subject of immortality brings to mind a vivid incident which took place in 1929 at Montreux in Switzerland .
Criticism is as old as literary art and we can set the stage for our study of three moderns if we see how certain critics in the past have dealt with the ethical aspects of literature .
I have chosen five contrasting pairs , ten men in all , and they are arranged in roughly chronological order .
Such a list must naturally be selective , and the treatment of each man is brief , for I am interested only in their general ideas on the moral measure of literature .
Altogether , the list will give us considerable variety in attitudes and some typical ones , for these critics range all the way from censors to those who consider art above ethics , all the way from Plato to Poe .
And most of the great periods are represented , because we will compare Plato and Aristotle from the golden age of Greece ; ;
Stephen Gosson and Sir Philip Sidney from renaissance England ; ;
Dr. Johnson and William Hazlitt of the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries in England ; ;
and James Russell Lowell and Edgar Allan Poe of nineteenth century American letters .
Plato and Aristotle
Plato and Aristotle agree on some vital literary issues .
They both measure literature by moral standards , and in their political writings both allow for censorship , but the differences between them are also significant .
While Aristotle censors literature only for the young , Plato would banish all poets from his ideal state .
Even more important , in his Poetics , Aristotle differs somewhat from Plato when he moves in the direction of treating literature as a unique thing , separate and apart from its causes and its effects .
All through The Republic , Plato attends to the way art relates to the general life and ultimately to a good life for his citizens .
In short , he is constantly concerned with the ethical effects .
When he discusses the subject matter of poetry , he asks what moral effect the scenes will have .
When he turns briefly to literary style , in the Third Book , he again looks to the effect on the audience .
He explains that his citizens must not be corrupted by any of the misrepresentations of the gods or heroes that one finds in much poetry , and he observes that all `` these pantomimic gentlemen '' will be sent to another state .
Only those story tellers will remain who can `` imitate the style of the virtuous '' .
Plato is , at times , just as suspicious of the poets themselves as he is of their work .
When he discusses tyrants in the Eighth Book of The Republic , he pictures the poets as willing to praise the worst rulers .
But the most fundamental objection he has to poets appears in the Tenth Book , and it is derived from his doctrine of ideal forms .
In Plato's mind there is an irresolvable conflict between the poet and the philosopher , because the poet imitates only particular objects and is incapable of rising to the first level of abstraction , much less the highest level of ideal forms .
True reality , of course , is the ideal , and the poet knows nothing of this ; ;
only the philosopher knows the truth .
Poets , moreover , dwell on human passions .
And with this point about the passions , we encounter Plato's dualism .
The same sort of thinking plays so large a part in both Babbitt and More , that we must examine it in some detail .
Plato feels that man has two competing aspects , his rational faculty and his irrational .
We can be virtuous only if we control our lower natures , the passions in this case , and strengthen our rational side ; ;
and poetry , with all its emphasis on the passions , encourages the audience to give way to emotion .
For this reason , then , poetry tends to weaken the power of control , the reason , because it tempts one to indulge his passions , and even the best of men , he maintains , may be corrupted by this subtle influence .
Plato's attitude toward poetry has always been something of an enigma , because he is so completely sensitive to its charm .
His whole objection , indeed , seems to rise out of a deep conviction that the poets do have great power to influence , but Plato seldom pays any attention to what might be called the poem itself .
He is , rather , concerned with the effect on society and he wants the poets to join his fight for justice .
He wants them to use their great power to strengthen man's rational side , to teach virtue , and to encourage religion .
While Plato finally allows a few acceptable hymns to the gods and famous men , still he clearly leaves the way open for further discussion of the issue .
He even calls upon the poets to defend the Muse and to show that poetry may contribute to virtue .
He says : ``
We may further grant to those of her ( Poetry's ) defenders who are lovers of poetry and yet not poets , the permission to speak in prose on her behalf : let them show not only that she is pleasant but also useful to States and to human life , and we will listen in a kindly spirit ; ;
for if this can be proved we shall surely be the gainers -- I mean , if there is a use in poetry as well as a delight '' .
When we turn to Aristotle's ideas on the moral measure of literature , it is at once apparent that he is at times equally concerned about the influence of the art .
In the ideal state , for instance , he argues that the young citizens should hear only the most carefully selected tales and stories .
For this reason , he would banish indecent pictures and speeches from the stage ; ;
and the young people should not even be permitted to see comedies till they are old enough to drink strong wine and sit at the public tables .
By the time they reach that age , however , Aristotle no longer worries about the evil influence of comedies .
In Aristotle's analysis of tragedy in the Poetics , we find an attempt to isolate the art , to consider only those things proper to it , to discover how it differs from other arts , and to deal with the effects peculiar to it .
He assures us , early in the Poetics , that all art is `` imitation '' and that all imitation gives pleasure , but he distinguishes between art in general and poetic art on the basis of the means , manner , and the objects of the imitation .
Once the poetic arts are separated from the other forms , he lays down his famous definition of tragedy , which sets up standards and so lends direction to the remainder of the work .
A tragedy , by his definition , is an imitation of an action that is serious , of a certain magnitude , and complete in itself .
It should have a dramatic form with pleasing language , and it should portray incidents which so arouse pity and fear that it purges these emotions in the audience .
Any tragedy , he maintains , has six elements : plot , character , and thought ( the objects of imitation ) , diction and melody ( the means of imitation ) , and spectacle ( the manner of imitation ) .
Throughout the rest of the Poetics , Aristotle continues to discuss the characteristics of these six parts and their interrelationship , and he refers frequently to the standards suggested by his definition of tragedy .
Aristotle's method in the Poetics , then , does suggest that we should isolate the work .
The Chicago contingent of modern critics follow Aristotle so far in this direction that it is hard to see how they can compare one poem with another for the purpose of evaluation .
But there are , however , several features of Aristotle's approach which open the way for the moral measure of literature .
For one thing , Aristotle mentions that plays may corrupt the audience .
In addition , his definition of a tragedy invites our attention , because a serious and important action may very well be one that tests the moral fiber of the author or of the characters .
And there is one other point in the Poetics that invites moral evaluation : Aristotle's notion that the distinctive function of tragedy is to purge one's emotions by arousing pity and fear .
He rejects certain plots because they do not contribute to that end .
The point is that an ethical critic , with an assist from Freud , can seize on this theory to argue that tragedy provides us with a harmless outlet for our hostile urges .
In his study Samuel Johnson , Joseph Wood Krutch takes this line when he says that what Aristotle really means by his theory of catharsis is that our evil passions may be so purged by the dramatic ritual that it is `` less likely that we shall indulge them through our own acts '' .
In Krutch's view , this is one way to show how literature may be moral in effect without employing the explicit methods of a moralist .
And we can add that Krutch's interpretation of purgation is also one answer to Plato's fear that poetry will encourage our passions .
If Krutch is correct , tragedy may have quite the opposite effect .
It may allay our passions and so restore the rule of reason .
Or in more Freudian terms , the experience may serve to sublimate our destructive urges and strengthen the ego and superego .
Gosson and Sidney
The second half of the sixteenth century in England was the setting for a violent and long controversy over the moral quality of renaissance literature , especially the drama .
No one suggested that the ethical effects of the art were irrelevant .
Both sides agreed that the theater must stand a moral test , but they could not agree on whether the poets were a good or a bad influence .
Both sides claimed that Plato and Aristotle supported their cause .
Those who wanted to close the theaters , for example , pointed to Plato's Republic and those who wished to keep them open called on the Plato of the Ion to testify in their behalf .
The most famous document that comes out of this dispute is perhaps Sir Philip Sidney's An Apologie For Poetrie , published in 1595 .
Many students of literature know that classical defense .
What is not so well known , however , and what is quite important for understanding the issues of this early quarrel , is the kind of attack on literature that Sidney was answering .
For this reason , then I want to describe , first , two examples of the puritanical attacks : Stephen Gosson's The School Of Abuse , 1579 , and his later Playes Confuted , published in 1582 .
Second , we will see how Sidney answered the charges , for while Sidney's essay was not specifically a reply to Gosson , his arguments do support the new theater .
According to William Ringler's study , Stephen Gosson , the theater business in London had become a thriving enterprise by 1577 , and , in the opinion of many , a thoroughly bad business .
Aroused by what they considered an evil influence , some members of the clergy , joined by city authorities , merchants , and master craftsmen , began the attack on the plays and the actors for what they called `` the abuses of the art '' , but by 1582 some of them began to denounce the whole idea of acting .
Although this kind of wholesale objection came at first from some men who were not technically Puritans , still , once the Puritans gained power , they climaxed the affair by passing the infamous ordinance of 1642 which decreed that all `` public stage-plays shall cease and be forborne '' .
With that act of Parliament the opponents of the stage won the day , and for more than two decades after that England had no legitimate public drama .
In the early days of this controversy over the theater one of the interested parties , Stephen Gosson , published a little tract in which he objected mildly to the abuses of art , rather than the art itself .
But his opposition hardened and by 1579 , in The School Of Abuse , he was ready to banish all `` players '' .
He advises women to beware `` of those places which in sorrows cheere you and beguile you in mirth '' .
He does not really approve of levity and laughter , but sex is the deadly sin .
He warns that a single glance can lead us into temptation , for `` Looking eies have lyking hartes , and lyking hartes may burne in lust '' .
But it would not be very satisfactory to leave our conclusions at the point just reached .
Fortunately , it is possible to be somewhat more concrete and factual in diagnosing the involvement of values in education .
For this purpose we now draw upon data from sociological and psychological studies of students in American colleges and universities , and particularly from the Cornell Values Studies .
In the latter research program , information is available for 2,758 Cornell students surveyed in 1950 and for 1,571 students surveyed in 1952 .
Of the latter sample , 944 persons had been studied two years earlier ; ;
hence changes in attitudes and values can be analyzed for identical individuals at two points in time .
In addition , the 1952 study collected comparable data from 4,585 students at ten other colleges and universities scattered across the country : Dartmouth , Harvard , Yale , Wesleyan , North Carolina , Fisk , Texas , University of California at Los Angeles , Wayne , and Michigan .
We find , in the first place , that the students overwhelmingly approve of higher education , positively evaluate the job their own institution is doing , do not accept most of the criticisms levelled against higher education in the public prints , and , on the whole , approve of the way their university deals with value-problems and value inculcation .
It is not our impression that these evaluations are naively uncritical resultants of blissful ignorance ; ;
rather , the generality of these students find their university experience congenial to their own sense of values .
Students are approximately equally divided between those who regard vocational preparation as the primary goal of an ideal education and those who chose a general liberal education .
Other conceivable goals , such as character-education and social adjustment , are of secondary importance to them .
The ideal of a liberal education impresses itself upon the students more and more as they move through college .
Even in such technical curricula as engineering , the senior is much more likely than the freshman to choose , as an ideal , liberal education over specific vocational preparation .
In the university milieu of scholarship and research , of social diversity , of new ideas and varied and wide-ranging interests , `` socialization '' into a campus culture apparently means heightened appreciation of the idea of a liberal education in the arts and sciences .
Students' choices of ideal educational goals are not arbitrary or whimsical .
There is a clear relationship between their educational evaluations and their basic pattern of general values .
The selective and directional qualities of basic value-orientations are clearly evident in these data : the `` success-oriented '' students choose vocational preparation , the `` other-directed '' choose goals of social adjustment ( `` getting along with people '' ) , the `` intellectuals '' choose a liberal arts emphasis .
The same patterned consistency shows itself in occupational choices .
There is impressive consistency between specific occupational preferences and the student's basic conception of what is for him a good way of life .
And , contrary to many popular assertions , the goal-values chosen do not seem to us to be primarily oriented to materialistic success nor to mere conformity .
Our students want occupations that permit them to use their talents and training , to be creative and original , to work with and to help other people .
They also want money , prestige , and security .
But they are optimistic about their prospects in these regards ; ;
they set limits to their aspirations -- few aspire to millions of dollars or to `` imperial '' power and glory .
Within the fixed frame of these aspirations , they can afford to place a high value on the expressive and people-oriented aspects of occupation and to minimize the instrumental-reward values of power , prestige , and wealth .
Occupational choices are also useful -- and interesting -- in bringing out clearly that values do not constitute the only component in goals and aspirations .
For there is also the `` face of reality '' in the form of the individual's perceptions of his own abilities and interests , of the objective possibilities open to him , of the familial and other social pressures to which he is exposed .
We find `` reluctant recruits '' whose values are not in line with their expected occupation's characteristics .
Students develop occupational images -- not always accurate or detailed -- and they try to fit their values to the presumed characteristics of the imagined occupation .
The purely cognitive or informational problems are often acute .
Furthermore , many reluctant recruits are yielding to social demands , or compromising in the face of their own limitations of opportunity , or of ability and performance .
Thus , many a creativity-oriented aspirant for a career in architecture , drama , or journalism , resigns himself to a real estate business ; ;
many a people-oriented student who dreams of the M.D. decides to enter his father's advertising agency ; ;
and many a hopeful incipient business executive decides it were better to teach the theory of business administration than to practice it .
The old ideal of the independent entrepreneur is extant -- but so is the recognition that the main chance may be in a corporate bureaucracy .
In their views on dating , courtship , sex , and family life , our students prefer what they are expected to prefer .
For them , in the grim words of a once-popular song , love and marriage go together like a horse and carriage .
Their expressed standards concerning sex roles , desirable age for marriage , characteristics of an ideal mate , number of children desired are congruent with the values and stereotypes of the preceding generation -- minus compulsive rebellion .
They even accept the `` double standard '' of sex morality in a double sense , i.e. , both sexes agree that standards for men differ from standards for women , and women apply to both sexes a standard different from that held by men .
`` Conservatism '' and `` traditionalism '' seem implied by what has just been said .
But these terms are treacherous .
In the field of political values , it is certainly true that students are not radical , not rebels against their parents or their peers .
And as they go through college , the students tend to bring their political position in line with that prevalent in the social groups to which they belong .
Yet they have accepted most of the extant `` welfare state '' provisions for health , security , and the regulation of economic affairs , and they overwhelmingly approve of the traditional `` liberalism '' of the Bill of Rights .
When their faith in civil liberties is tested against strong pressures of social expediency in specific issues , e.g. , suppression of `` dangerous ideas '' , many waver and give in .
The students who are most willing to acquiesce in the suppression of civil liberties are also those who are most likely to be prejudiced against minority groups , to be conformist and traditionalistic in general social attitudes , and to lack a basic faith in people .
As one looks at the existing evidence , one finds a correlation , although only a slight one , between high grades and `` libertarian '' values .
But the correlation is substantial only among upperclassmen .
In other words , as students go through college , those who are most successful academically tend to become more committed to a `` Bill of Rights '' orientation .
College in gross -- just the general experience -- may have varying effects , but the students who are successful emerge with strengthened and clarified democratic values .
This finding is consistent also with the fact that student leaders are more likely to be supporters of the values implicit in civil liberties than the other students .
There is now substantial evidence from several major studies of college students that the experience of the college years results in a certain , selective homogenization of attitudes and values .
Detached from their prior statuses and social groups and exposed to the pervasive stimuli of the university milieu , the students tend to assimilate a new common culture , to converge toward norms characteristic of their own particular campus .
Furthermore , in certain respects , there are norms common to colleges and universities across the country .
For instance , college-educated people consistently show up in study after study as more often than others supporters of the Bill of Rights and other democratic rights and liberties .
The interesting thing in this connection is that the norms upon which students tend to converge include toleration of diversity .
To the extent that our sampling of the orientations of American college students in the years 1950 and 1952 may be representative of our culture -- and still valid in 1959 -- we are disposed to question the summary characterization of the current generation as silent , beat , apathetic , or as a mass of other-directed conformists who are guided solely by social radar without benefit of inner gyroscopes .
Our data indicate that these students of today do basically accept the existing institutions of the society , and , in the face of the realities of complex and large-scale economic and political problems , make a wary and ambivalent delegation of trust to those who occupy positions of legitimized responsibility for coping with such collective concerns .
In a real sense they are admittedly conservative , but their conservatism incorporates a traditionalized embodiment of the original `` radicalism '' of 1776 .
Although we have no measures of its strength or intensity , the heritage of the doctrine of inalienable rights is retained .
As they move through the college years our young men and women are `` socialized '' into a broadly similar culture , at the level of personal behavior .
In this sense also , they are surely conformists .
It is even true that some among them use the sheer fact of conformity -- `` everyone does it '' -- as a criterion for conduct .
But the extent of ethical robotism is easily overestimated .
Few students are really so faceless in the not-so-lonely crowd of the swelling population in our institutions of higher learning .
And it may be well to recall that to say `` conformity '' is , in part , another way of saying `` orderly human society '' .
In the field of religious beliefs and values , the college students seem to faithfully reflect the surrounding culture .
Their commitments are , for the most part , couched in a familiar idiom .
Students testify to a felt need for a religious faith or ultimate personal philosophy .
Avowed atheists or freethinkers are so rare as to be a curiosity .
The religious quest is often intense and deep , and there are students on every campus who are seriously wrestling with the most profound questions of meaning and value .
At the same time , a major proportion of these young men and women see religion as a means of personal adjustment , an anchor for family life , a source of emotional security .
These personal and social goals often overshadow the goals of intellectual clarity , and spiritual transcendence .
The `` cult of adjustment '' does exist .
It exists alongside the acceptance of traditional forms of organized religion ( church , ordained personnel , ritual , dogma ) .
Still another segment of the student population consists of those who seek , in what they regard as religion , intellectual clarity , rational belief , and ethical guidance and reinforcement .
Our first impression of the data was that the students were surprisingly orthodox and religiously involved .
Upon second thought we were forced to realize that we have very few reliable historical benchmarks against which we might compare the present situation , and that conclusions that present-day students are `` more '' or `` less '' religious could not be defended on the basis of our data .
As we looked more intently at the content of our belief and the extent of religious participation , we received the impression that many of the religious convictions expressed represented a conventional acceptance , of low intensity .
But , here again , comparative benchmarks are lacking , and we do not know , in any case , what measure of profoundity and intensity to expect from healthy , young , secure and relatively inexperienced persons ; ;
after all , feelings of immortality and invulnerability are standard illusions of youth .
Nor are optimistic and socially-oriented themes at all rare in the distinctive religious history of this country .
Kluckhohn recently has summarized evidence regarding changes in values during a period of years , primarily 1935-1955 , but extending much farther back in some instances .
A variety of data are assembled to bear upon such alleged changes as diminished puritan morality , work-success ethic , individualism , achievement , lessened emphasis on future-time orientation in favor of sociability , moral relativism , consideration and tolerance , conformity , hedonistic present-time orientation .
Although he questions the extent and nature of the alleged revival of religion and the alleged increase in conformity , and thinks that `` hedonistic '' present-time orientation does not have the meaning usually attributed to it , he does conclude that Americans increasingly enjoy leisure without guilt , do not stress achievement so much as formerly , are more accepting of group harmony as a goal , more tolerant of diversity and aware of other cultures .
From New Jersey , Morgan hastened to the headquarters of Washington at Whitemarsh , Pennsylvania , arriving there on November 18th .
There was much sickness in the corps , and the men were , in addition , without the clothing , shoes , and blankets needed for the winter weather .
Morgan himself had sciatica again .
Even on his tough constitution , the exposure and strenuous activity were beginning to tell in earnest .
On the morning of November 17th , Cornwallis and 2,000 men had left Philadelphia with the object of capturing Fort Mercer at Red Bank , New Jersey .
In order to prevent this , Washington hastened to dispatch several units to reinforce the fort , including a force under the Marquis De Lafayette containing some 160 of Morgan's riflemen , all who were fit for duty at this time , the rest having no shoes .
Although the fort was evacuated in the face of the force of Cornwallis , Morgan and his men did have a chance to take another swing at the redcoats .
A picket guard of about 350 , mostly Hessians , were attacked by the Americans under Lafayette , and driven back to their camp , some twenty to thirty of them falling before the riflemen's fire .
`` I never saw men '' , Lafayette declared in regard to the riflemen , `` so merry , so spirited , and so desirous to go on to the enemy , whatever force they might have , as that small party in this fight '' .
Nathanael Greene told Washington that `` Lafayette was charmed with the spirited behavior of the militia and riflemen '' .
A few days later it was learned that General Howe was planning an attack upon the American camp .
The British general moved his forces north from Philadelphia to Chestnut Hill , near the right wing of the patriot encampment .
Here the Pennsylvania militia skirmished with the British , but soon fled .
Morgan was ordered to attack the enemy , who had meantime moved to Edge Hill on the left of the Americans .
Similar orders were given to the Maryland militia .
Morgan immediately disposed his troops for action and found he had not long to wait .
A body of redcoats were seen marching down a nearby slope , a tempting target for the riflemen , who threw a volley into their ranks and `` messed up '' the smart formation considerably .
Now the riflemen and the Marylanders followed up their beginning and closed in on the British , giving them another telling round of fire .
The redcoats ran like rabbits .
But the Maryland militia had likewise fled , all too typical of this type of soldier during the Revolution , an experience which gave Morgan little confidence in militia in general , as he watched other instances of their breaking in hot engagements .
The British , although suffering considerable losses , noted the defection of the Marylanders , made a stand , then turned and attacked Morgan who became greatly outnumbered and had to retire .
The Americans lost forty-four men , among them Major Joseph Morris of Morgan's regiment , an officer who was regarded with high esteem and affection , not only by his commander , but by Washington and Lafayette as well .
The latter was so upset on learning of the death of Morris , that he wrote Morgan a letter , showing his own warmhearted generosity .
After complimenting Morgan and the riflemen and saying he was praising them to Congress , too , the ardent Frenchman added he felt that Congress should make some financial restitution to the widow and family of Morris , but that he knew Morgan realized how long such action usually required , if it was done at all .
`` As Mrs. Morris may be in some want before that time '' , Lafayette continued , `` I am going to trouble you with a commission which I beg you will execute with the greatest secrecy .
If she wanted to borrow any sum of money in expecting the arrangements of Congress , it would not become a stranger , unknown to her , to offer himself for that purpose .
But you could ( as from yourself ) tell her that you had friends who , being with the army , don't know what to do with their money and would willingly let her have one or many thousand dollars '' .
This was accordingly done , and the plight of the grateful Mrs. Morris was much relieved as a result of the generous loan , the amount of which is not known .
Apparently still sensitive about the idea with which General Gates had approached him at Saratoga , namely , that George Washington be replaced , Morgan was vehement in his support of the commander-in-chief during the campaign around Philadelphia .
Richard Peters , Secretary of the Board of War , thought Morgan was so extreme on the subject that he accused him of trying to pick a quarrel .
Morgan hotly denied this and informed the Board of War that the men in camp linked the name of Peters with the plot against Washington .
Peters insisted that this impression was a great misunderstanding , and evidently , from the quarrel , obtained an unfavorable impression of Morgan's judgment .
Such a situation regarding the Board of War could hardly have helped Morgan's chances for promotion when that matter came before the group later on .
In late December , the American army moved from Whitemarsh to Valley Forge , and although the distance was only 13 miles , the journey took more than a week because of the bad weather , the barefooted and almost naked men .
The position of the new camp was admirably selected and well fortified , its easily defensible nature being one good reason why Howe did not attack it .
Besides helping to prevent the movement of the British to the west , Valley Forge also obstructed the trade between Howe's forces and the farmers , thus threatening the vital subsistence of the redcoats and rendering their foraging to obtain necessary supplies extremely hazardous .
In order to see that this hindering situation remained effective , Washington detached several bodies of his troops to the periphery of the Philadelphia area .
Morgan and his corps were placed on the west side of the Schuylkill River , with instructions to intercept all supplies found going to the city and to keep a close eye on the movements of the enemy .
The headquarters of Morgan was on a farm , said to have been particularly well located so as to prevent the farmers nearby from trading with the British , a practice all too common to those who preferred to sell their produce for British gold rather than the virtually worthless Continental currency .
In his dealings with offenders , however , Morgan was typically firm but just .
For example , he captured some persons from York County , who with teams were taking to Philadelphia the furniture of a man who had just been released from prison through the efforts of his wife , and who apparently was helpless to prevent the theft of his household goods .
Morgan took charge of the furniture and restored it to its thankful owners , but he let the culprits who had stolen it go free .
Morgan complained to Washington about the men detailed to him for scouting duty , most of them he said being useless .
`` They straggle at such a rate '' , he told the commander-in-chief , `` that if the enemy were enterprising , they might get two from us , when we would take one of them , which makes me wish General Howe would go on , lest any incident happen to us '' .
If the hardships of the winter at Valley Forge were trying for healthy men , they were , of course , much more so for those not in good health .
Daniel Morgan's rheumatic condition worsened with the increase of the cold and damp weather .
He had braved the elements and the enemy , but the strain , aided by the winter , was catching up with him at last .
Also , he was now forty-three years old .
The mild activity of his command during the sojourn of the troops at Valley Forge could be handled by a subordinate , he felt , so like Henry Knox , equally loyal to Washington , who went to Boston at this time , Morgan received permission to visit his home in Virginia for several weeks .
In his absence , the rifle regiment was under the command of Major Thomas Posey , another able Virginian .
But Morgan did not leave before he had written a letter to a William Pickman in Salem , Massachusetts , apparently an acquaintance , praising Washington and saying that the slanders propagated about him were `` opposed by the general current of the people to exalt General Gates at the expense of General Washington was injurious to the latter .
If there be a disinterested patriot in America , 'tis General Washington , and his bravery , none can question '' .
It is doubtful if Morgan was able to take home much money to his wife and children , for his pay , as shown by the War Department Abstracts of early 1778 was $75 a month as a colonel , and that apt to be delayed .
He was shown a warm welcome regardless , and spent the time in Winchester recuperating from his ailment , enjoying his family and arranging his private affairs which were , of course , run down .
His neighbors celebrated his return , even if it was only temporary , and Morgan was especially gratified by the quaint expression of an elderly friend , Isaac Lane , who told him , `` A man that has so often left all that is dear to him , as thou hast , to serve thy country , must create a sympathetic feeling in every patriotic heart '' .
There must have been special feelings of joy and patriotism in the heart of Daniel Morgan too , when the news was received on April 30th of the recognition by France of the independence of the United States .
His fellow Virginian , George Washington , had stated , `` I believe no event was ever received with more heartfelt joy '' .
The dreary camp at Valley Forge was turned into an arena of rejoicing .
Even the dignified Washington indulged in a game of wickets with some children .
His soldiers on the whole did not celebrate so mildly .
On May 6th , Morgan , who had returned , received from Washington orders to `` send out patrols under vigilant officers '' to keep near the enemy .
`` The reason for this '' , the orders said , `` is that the enemy may think to take advantage of the celebration of this day .
The troops must have more than the common quantity of liquor , and perhaps there will be some little drunkenness among them '' .
Apparently no serious disorders resulted from the celebration , and within a few days , Morgan joined the force of Lafayette who now had command of some 2,000 men at Barren Hill , not far above Philadelphia on the Schuylkill .
The Frenchman had been ordered to approach the enemy's lines , harass them and get intelligence of their movements .
Interestingly enough , the order transmitted to Morgan through Alexander Hamilton also informed him that `` A party of Indians will join the party to be sent from your command at Whitemarsh , and act with them '' .
These were Oneida Indians .
Washington evidently was anxious for Morgan to be cautious as well as aggressive , for on May 17th , 18th and 20th he admonished the leader of the riflemen-rangers to be on the alert .
Obviously the commander-in-chief had confidence that Morgan would furnish him good intelligence too , for on the 23rd of May , he told Morgan that the British were prepared to move , perhaps in the night , and asked Morgan to have two of his best horses ready to dispatch to General Smallwood with the intelligence obtained .
Meantime , however , this same General Smallwood seemed to be serving chivalry as well as the American army .
Colonel Benjamin Ford wrote to Morgan from Wilmington that he understood a Mrs. Sanderson from Maryland had obtained permission from Smallwood to visit Philadelphia , and would return on May 26th , escorted by several officers from Maryland `` belonging to the new levies in the British service '' .
Ford urged Morgan to capture these men , who , he thought , might be disguised as Quakers or peasants .
Morgan took the suggested steps , but when Mrs. Sanderson appeared , there was nobody with her but her husband , whom he promptly sent to headquarters to be questioned .
But Morgan evidently reported matters of intelligence much more important to his commanding general .
A letter of a few days later from Washington's aide to Morgan stated , `` His Excellency is highly pleased with your conduct upon this occasion '' .
For by now the original cause of the quarrel , Philip's seizure of Gascony , was only one strand in the spider web of French interests that overlay all western Europe and that had been so well and closely spun that the lightest movement could set it trembling from one end to the other .
Even so , Edward's ambassadors can scarcely have foreseen that five years of unremitting work lay ahead of them before peace was finally made and that when it did come the countless embassies that left England for Rome during that period had very little to do with it .
It is hard not to lay most of the blame for their failures on the pope .
Nogaret is hardly an impartial witness , and even he did not make his charges against Boniface until the latter was dead , but there is some truth in what he said and more in what he did not say .
It was not merely a hunger for `` money , gold and precious objects '' that delayed the papal pronouncement that could have brought the war to an end ; ;
the pope was playing a dangerous game , with so many balls in the air at once that a misstep would bring them all about his ears , and his only hope was to temporize so that he could take advantage of every change in the delicate balance of European affairs .
When the negotiations began , his quarrel with the king of France was temporarily in abeyance , and he had no intention of reviving it so long as there was hope that French money would come to pay the troops who , under Charles of Valois , the papal vicar of Tuscany , were so valuable in the crusade against the Colonna cardinals and their Sicilian allies .
If his circumspection in regard to Philip's sensibilities went so far that he even refused to grant a dispensation for the marriage of Amadee's daughter , Agnes , to the son of the dauphin of Vienne -- a truly peacemaking move according to thirteenth-century ideas , for Savoy and Dauphine were as usual fighting on opposite sides -- for fear that he might seem to be favoring the anti-French coalition , he would certainly never take the far more drastic step of ordering the return of Gascony to Edward , even though , as he admitted to the English ambassadors , he had been advised that the original cession was invalid .
On the other hand , he did not want to offend Edward either , and he found himself in a very difficult position .
On the surface , the whole question was purely feudal .
The French were now occupying Gascony and Flanders on the technical grounds that their rulers had forfeited them by a breach of the feudal contract .
But Edward was invading Scotland for precisely the same reason , and his insubordinate vassal was the ally of the king of France .
Boniface had to uphold the sacredness of the feudal contract at all costs , for it was only as suzerain of Sicily and of the Patrimony of Peter that he had any justification for his Italian wars , but in the English-Scottish-French triangle it was almost impossible for him to recognize the claims of any one of the contestants without seeming to invalidate those of the other two .
Because of these involvements in the matter at stake , Boniface lacked the impartiality that is supposed to be an essential qualification for the position of arbiter , and in retrospect that would seem to be sufficient reason why the English embassies to the Curia proved so fruitless .
But when the situation was so complicated that even Nogaret , one of the principal actors in the drama , could misinterpret the pope's motives , it is possible that Othon and his companions , equally baffled , attributed their difficulties to a more immediate cause .
This was Boniface's monumental tactlessness .
`` Tact '' , by its very derivation , implies that its possessor keeps in touch with other people , but the author of Clericis Laicos and Unam Sanctam , the wielder of the two swords , the papal sun of which the imperial moon was but a dim reflection , the peer of Caesar and vice-regent of Christ , was so high above other human beings that he had forgotten what they were like .
He was a learned and brilliant man , one of the best jurists in Europe and with flashes of penetrating insight , and yet in his dealings with other people , particularly when he tried to be ingratiating , he was capable of an abysmal stupidity that can have come only from a complete incomprehension of human nature and human motives .
This lofty disregard for others was not shared by such men as Pierre Flotte and his associates , that `` brilliant group of mediocre men '' , as Powicke calls them , who provided the brains for the French embassy that came to Rome under the nominal leadership of the archbishop of Narbonne , the duke of Burgundy , and the count of St.-Pol .
They had risen from humble beginnings by their own diligence and astuteness , they were unfettered by the codes that bound nobles like Othon or even the older generation of clerks like Hotham , and they were working for an end that their opponents had never even visualized .
Boniface was later to explain to the English that Robert of Burgundy and Guy De St.-Pol were easy enough to do business with ; ;
it was the clerks who caused the mischief and who made him say that the ruling passion of their race was covetousness and that in dealing with them he never knew whether he had to do with a Frenchman or with a devil .
To the pope , head of the universal Church , to the duke of Burgundy , taking full advantage of his position on the borders of France and of the Empire , or to Othon , who found it quite natural that he should do homage to Edward for Tipperary and to the count of Savoy for Grandson , Flotte's outspoken nationalism was completely incomprehensible .
And yet he made no pretense about it ; ;
when the pope , trying no doubt to appeal to his better nature , said to him , `` You have already taken Normandy .
Do you want to drive the king of England from all his overseas possessions '' ? ?
The Frenchman's answer was a terse `` Vous dites vrai '' .
Loyal and unscrupulous , with a single-minded ambition to which he devoted all his energies , he outmatched the English diplomats time and time again until , by a kind of poetic justice , he fell at the battle of Courtrai , the victim of the equally nationalistic if less articulate Flemings .
The English , relying on a prejudiced arbiter and confronted with superior diplomatic skill , were also hampered in their negotiations by the events that were taking place at home .
The Scots had found a new leader in William Wallace , and Edward's yearly expeditions across the Border called for evermounting taxes , which only increased his difficulties with the barons and the clergy .
He was unable to send any more help to his allies on the Continent , and during the next few years many of them , left to resist French pressure unaided , surrendered to the inevitable and made their peace with Philip .
The defeat and death of Adolf of Nassau at the hands of Albert of Habsburg also worked to the disadvantage of the English , for all the efforts to revive the anti-French coalition came to nothing when Philip made an alliance with the new king of the Romans .
These shifts in alliance and allegiance not only increased the difficulties confronting the English embassy as a whole , but also directly involved the two Savoyards , Amadee and Othon .
In spite of the armistice negotiated by Amadee two years earlier , the war between Bishop Guillaume of Lausanne and Louis of Savoy was still going on , and although little is known about it , that little proves that it was yet another phase of the struggle against French expansion and was closely interwoven with the larger conflict .
A second truce had been arbitrated in April , 1298 , by Jean D'Arlay , lord of Chalon-sur-Saone , the most staunch of Edward's Burgundian allies , and these last were represented in the discussions at the Curia by Gautier de Montfaucon , Othon's neighbor and a member of the Vaudois coalition .
But although in many of these discussions Othon and Amadee might have been tempted to consider their own interests as well as those of the king , Edward's confidence in them was so absolute that they were made the acknowledged leaders of the embassy .
Amadee may have owed this partly to his relationship with the king , but Othon , who at sixty seems still to have been a simple knight , merited his position solely by his own character and ability .
The younger men , Vere , and Pembroke , who was also Edward's cousin and whose Lusignan blood gave him the swarthy complexion that caused Edward of Carnarvon's irreverent friend , Piers Gaveston , to nickname him `` Joseph the Jew '' , were relatively new to the game of diplomacy , but Pontissara had been on missions to Rome before , and Hotham , a man of great learning , `` jocund in speech , agreeable to meet , of honest religion , and pleasing in the eyes of all '' , and an archbishop to boot , was as reliable and experienced as Othon himself .
But all the reports of this first embassy show that the two Savoyards were the heads of it , for they were the only ones who were empowered to swear for the king that he would abide by the pope's decision and who were allowed to appoint deputies in the event that one was unavoidably absent .
This also gave them the unpleasant duty of being spokesmen for the mission , and they could foresee that that would not be easy .
Underneath all the high-sounding phrases of royal and papal letters and behind the more down-to-earth instructions to the envoys was the inescapable fact that Edward would have to desert his Flemish allies and leave them to the vengeance of their indignant suzerain , the king of France , in return for being given an equally free hand with the insubordinate Scots .
This was a doubly bitter blow to the king .
In the eyes of those who still cared for such things , it was a reflection on his honor , and it gave further grounds for complaint to his overtaxed subjects , who were already grumbling -- although probably not in Latin -- `` Non est lex sana Quod regi sit mea lana '' .
Bad relations between England and Flanders brought hard times to the shepherds scattered over the dales and downs as well as to the crowded Flemish cities , and while the English , so far , had done no more than grumble , Othon had seen what the discontent might lead to , for before he left the Low Countries the citizens of Ghent had risen in protest against the expense of supporting Edward and his troops , and the regular soldiers had found it unexpectedly difficult to put down the nasty little riot that ensued .
In all the talk of feudal rights , the knights and bishops must never forget the woolworkers , nor was it easy to do so , for all along the road to Italy they passed the Florentine pack trains going home with their loads of raw wool from England and rough Flemish cloth , the former to be spun and woven by the Arte Della Lana and the latter to be refined and dyed by the Arte Della Calimala with the pigment recently discovered in Asia Minor by one of their members , Bernardo Rucellai , the secret of which they jealously kept for themselves .
These chatty merchants made amusing and instructive traveling companions , for their business took them to all four corners of the globe , and Florentine gossip had already reached a high stage of development as even a cursory glance at the Inferno will prove .
A northern ambassador , willing to keep his mouth shut and his ears open , could learn a lot that would stand him in good stead at the Curia .
They had other topics of conversation , besides their news from courts and fairs , which were of interest to Othon , the builder of castles in Wales and churches in his native country .
Behind him lay the Low Countries , where men were still completing the cathedrals that a later Florentine would describe as `` a malediction of little tabernacles , one on top of the other , with so many pyramids and spires and leaves that it is a wonder they stand up at all , for they look as though they were made of paper instead of stone or marble '' ; ;
the Low Countries , where the Middle Ages were to last for another two centuries and die out only when Charles the Bold of Burgundy met his first defeat in the fields and forests below the walls of Grandson .
It usually turned out well for him because either he liked the right people or there were only a few wrong people in the town .
Alfred wanted to invest in my father's hotel and advance enough money to build a larger place .
It was a very tempting offer .
My father would have done it if it hadn't been for my mother , who had a fear of being in debt to anyone -- even Alfred Alpert .
In spite of his being well liked there were a few people who were very careful about Alfred .
They had my mother's opinion of him : that he was too sharp or a little too good to be true .
One of the people who was afraid of Alfred was his own brother , Lew .
I don't know how and I don't know why but the two stores , the one in Margaretville and the one in Fleischmanns that had been set up as a partnership , were dissolved , separated from each other .
Everything was all very friendly , except when it came to Harry , the youngest brother .
Alfred , who was a good deal older than Harry , had treated him like a son , and when Harry decided to stay in business with Lew instead of going with Alfred , Alfred looked on the decision as a betrayal .
From that day on he never spoke to Harry or to Lew , or to Lew's two boys , Mort and Jimmy .
The six miles between the towns became an ocean and the Alperts became a family of strangers .
Time went on and everybody got older .
I became fifteen , sixteen , then twenty , and still Tessie Alpert sat on the porch with a rose in her hair , and Alfred got richer and sicker with diabetes .
It was in the spring of the year when he took to his bed and Tessie and Alfred found out that they didn't know each other .
They were like two strangers .
The store was their marriage , and when Alfred had to leave it there was nothing to hold them together .
Tessie , everybody thought , was a strong woman , but she was only strong because she had Alfred to lean on .
And when Alfred was forced into his bed , Tessie left the front porch of the store and sat at home , rocking in her rocker in the living room , staring out the window -- the rose still in her hair .
Tessie could do nothing for Alfred .
She couldn't cook or clean or make him comfortable .
Instead she waited for Alfred to get better and take care of her .
Spring was life -- and Alfred Alpert in his sickroom was death .
Alfred knew that , too .
I remember him pointing out of the window and saying that he wished he could live to see another spring but that he wouldn't .
Alfred began to put his affairs in order , and he went about it like a man putting his things into storage .
My father , who liked Alfred very much , was a constant visitor .
One day Alfred told him that he had decided to leave everything to me .
My father , a wise man , asked him not to .
He knew Alfred liked me ; ;
if he wanted to leave me something let it be a trinket , nothing else .
By leaving me everything he wouldn't be doing me a favor , my father told him , and he didn't want to see his daughter involved in a lawsuit .
He didn't want Alfred to leave me trouble because that's all it would be , and Alfred understood .
Alfred was getting too sick to stay in his own home .
The doctor wanted him in a hospital ; ;
the nearest one was forty miles away in Kingston .
The day Alfred left his home and Fleischmanns he gave up the convictions of a lifetime .
He sent me for Meltzer the Butcher , whom he wanted not as a friend but as a rabbi .
Meltzer knew why I had come for him .
Solemnly he walked me back to Alfred's house without a word passing between us .
He entered the house in silence , walked into Alfred's room , and closed the door behind him .
I sat down to wait , and I watched Tessie Alpert , who hadn't moved or said a word but kept staring out of the window .
For a few minutes there was nothing to hear .
Then Meltzer's voice , quiet , calm , strong , started the Kaddish , the prayer for the dead .
I could hear Alfred's voice a few words behind Meltzer's like a counterpoint , punctuated by sobs of sorrow and resignation .
There was a finality in the rhythm of the prayer -- it was the end of a life , the end of hope , and the wondering if there would ever be another beginning .
Meltzer stayed with Alfred , and when the door opened they both came out .
Alfred was dressed for his trip to the hospital .
The car was waiting for him .
Alfred , leaning on Meltzer , stopped for a minute to look at Tessie .
She didn't turn away from the window .
Alfred nodded a little nod and went out through the door .
Outside , his brother Harry was waiting for him -- he had come to say good-bye .
Alfred walked past him without a word and got into the car .
Harry ran to the side of the car where Alfred was sitting and looked at him , begging him to speak .
Alfred looked straight ahead .
The car began to move and Harry ran after it crying , `` Alfred ! !
Alfred ! !
Speak to me '' .
But the car moved off and Alfred just looked straight ahead .
Harry followed the car until it reached the main road and turned towards Kingston .
He stood there watching until it had gone from his sight .
I went to visit Alfred in the Kingston Hospital a few times .
The first time I went there he asked me to bring him water from Flagler's well -- water that reminded him of his first days in the mountains -- and before I came the next time I filled a five-gallon jug for him and brought it to the hospital .
I don't think he ever got to drink any of it .
The jug stayed at the hospital and the water -- what can happen to water ? ?
-- it evaporated , disappeared , and came back to the earth as rain -- maybe for another well or another stream or another Alfred Alpert .
12 `` where is it written '' ? ?
Mr. Banks was always called Banks the Butcher until he left town and the shop passed over to Meltzer the Scholar who then became automatically Meltzer the Butcher .
Meltzer was a boarder with the Banks family .
He came to Fleischmanns directly from the boat that brought him to America from Russia .
He was a learned man and a very gentle soul .
He was filled with knowledge of the Bible and the Talmud .
He knew the whyfores and the wherefores but he was weak , very weak , on the therefores .
Banks the Butcher took Meltzer the Scholar as an apprentice and he made it very clear that a man of learning must be able to do more than just quote the Commentaries of the Talmud in order to live .
So Meltzer learned a new trade from Banks , who supplied the town and the hotels with meat .
Banks had a family -- a wife , a daughter , and a son .
The daughter , Lilly , was a very good friend of mine and I always had hopes that someday she and Meltzer would find each other .
They lived in the same house and it didn't seem to be such a hard thing to do , but the sad realities of Lilly's life and the fact that Meltzer didn't love her never satisfied my wishful thinking .
Banks the Butcher was a hard master and a hard father , a man who didn't seem to know the difference between the living flesh of his family and the hanging carcasses of his stock in trade .
He treated both with equal indifference and with equal contempt ; ;
perhaps he was a little more sympathetic to the sides of beef that hung silently from his hooks .
Lilly Banks and I became friends .
She was the opposite of everything she should have been -- a positive pole in a negative home , a living reaction of warmth and kindness to the harsh reality of her father .
And Lilly's whole family seemed to be an apology for Mr. Banks .
Her brother Karl was a very gentle soul , her mother was a quiet woman who said little but who had hard , probing eyes .
For every rude word of Mr. Banks's the family had five in apology .
Every chance I got I left the hotel to visit Lilly .
I was free but she was bound to her duties that not even the coming of Meltzer lightened .
She had to clean the glass on the display cases in the butcher shop , help her brother scrub the cutting tables with wire brushes , mop the floors , put down new sawdust on the floors and help check the outgoing orders .
When these chores were finished , only then , was she allowed whatever freedom she could find .
I helped Lilly in the store .
To me it was a game , to her it was the deadly seriousness of life .
I wanted to help so that we could find time to play .
And Lilly allowed me to help so that she could have her few little hours of escape .
When the work was finished , we would walk .
The road past the butcher shop took us along the side of a stream .
It ran north , away from the town and the people , through woods and past the nothingness of a graveyard .
Lilly preferred the loneliness of that walk .
I would have liked the town and the busyness of its people but I always followed Lilly into the peace of the silent and unstaring road .
It wasn't hard to understand .
To me Lilly was a fine and lovely girl .
To people who didn't know her she was a gawky , badly dressed kid whose arms were too long , whose legs were a little too bony .
She had the hips of a boy and a loose-jointed walk that reminded me of a string of beads strolling down the street .
And she had the kind of crossed eyes that shocked .
It was unexpected , unexpected because Lilly walked with her head bent down , down , and her mark of friendship was to look into your face .
I accepted her crossed eyes as she accepted my childishness ; ;
childishness compared to her grown-up understanding that life was a punishment for as yet undisclosed sins .
We were almost the same age , she was fifteen , I was twelve , and where I felt there was a life to look forward to Lilly felt she had had as much of it as was necessary .
When we went for our walks Lilly's brother would come along every once in a while .
Karl was an almost exact copy of his father physically and it was strange to see the expected become the unexpected .
This huge hulk played the guitar and he would take it along on our walks and play for us as we sat alone in the woods or by the stream .
Karl played well and his favorite song was a Schubert lullaby .
He spoke no German but he could sing it and the words of the song were the only ones he knew in a foreign language .
The song , he said , was called `` The Stream's Lullaby '' , and when he sang , `` Gute ruh , Gute ruh , Mach't die augen zu , '' there was such longing and such simple sadness that it frightened me .
Later , when I was older , I found the song was part of Schubert's Die Schone Mullerin .
And even hearing it in a concert hall surrounded by hundreds of people the words and the melody would make me a little colder and I would reach out for my husband's hand .
The brother and sister seemed to be a sort of mutual-aid society , a little fortress of kindness for each other in a hard world .
I felt very flattered to be included in the protection of their company even though I had nothing to be protected from .
The turn of the century , or to be more precise , the two decades preceeding and following it , marks a great change in the history of early English scholarship .
At the bottom of this change were great strides forward in the technical equipment and technical standards of the historian .
In archaeology , for example , the contributions of Frederick Haverfield and Reginald Smith to the various volumes of the Victoria County Histories raised the discipline from the status of an antiquarian pastime to that of the most valuable single tool of the early English historian .
And with the publication of E. T. Leeds' Archaeology Of The Anglo-Saxon Settlements the student was presented with an organized synthesis of the archaeological data then known .
What was true for archaeology was also true of place-name studies .
The value of place-names in the reconstruction of early English history had long been recognized .
Place-names , in fact , had been extensively utilized for this purpose from the time of Camden onwards .
Without a precise knowledge of Germanic philology , however , it is debatable whether their use was not more often a source of confusion and error than anything else .
Even in the nineteenth century such accomplished philologists as Kemble and Guest were led into what now seem ludicrous errors because of their failure to recognize that modern forms of place names are not necessarily the result of logical philological development .
It was therefore not until the publication of J.H. Round's `` The Settlement Of The South And East Saxons '' , and W.H. Stevenson's `` Dr. Guest And The English Conquest Of South Britain '' , that a scientific basis for place-name studies was established .
Diplomatic is another area for which the dawn of the twentieth century marks the beginning of modern standards of scholarship .
Although because of the important achievements of nineteenth century scholars in the field of textual criticism the advance is not so striking as it was in the case of archaeology and place-names , the editorial principles laid down by Stevenson in his great edition of Asser and in his Crawford Charters were a distinct improvement upon those of his predecessors and remain unimproved upon today .
In sum , it can be said that the techniques and standards of present day have their origin at the turn of the century .
And it is this , particularly the establishment of archaeology and place-name studies on a scientific basis , which are immediately pertinent to the Saxon Shore .
Almost inevitably , the first result of this technological revolution was a reaction against the methods and in many cases the conclusions of the Oxford school of Stubbs , Freeman and ( particularly ) Green regarding the nature of the Anglo-Saxon conquest of Britain .
Even before the century was out the tide of reaction had set in .
Charles Plummer in the introduction and notes to his splendid edition of Bede voiced some early doubts concerning the `` elaborate superstructure '' they raised up over the slim foundations afforded by the traditional narratives of the conquest .
It was Plummer , in fact , who coined the much quoted remark : `` Mr. Green indeed writes as if he had been present at the landing of the Saxons and had watched every step of their subsequent progress '' .
Sir Henry Howorth , writing in 1898 , put himself firmly in the Lappenburg-Kemble tradition by attacking the veracity of the West Saxon annals .
Early in the present century , W. H. Stevenson continued the attack with a savage article against Guest .
Following him in varying degrees of scepticism were T.W. Shore , H.M. Chadwick , Thomas Hodgkin and F. G. Beck .
By 1913 , Ferdinand Lot could begin an article subtitled `` La Conquete De La Grande-Bretagne par Les Saxons '' with the words , `` Il est difficile aujourd'hui d'entretenir des illusions sur la valeur du recit traditionnel de la conquete de la Grande-Bretagne .
'' It is also worthy of note that Lot cited both Kemble and Lappenberg with favor in that article .
It would seem that the wheel had turned full circle .
In fact , modern scholarly opinion in the main has not retreated all the way back to the destructive scepticism of the first half of the nineteenth century .
Although one meets with occasional extremists like Zachrisson or , very recently , Arthur Wade-Evans the majority of scholars have taken a middle position between the extremes of scepticism and gullibility .
Most now admit that Bede , Gildas , Nennius and The Anglo-Saxon Chronicles cannot be the infallible guides to early English history that Guest , Freeman and Green thought them to be .
As R.H. Hodgkin has remarked : `` The critical methods of the nineteenth century shattered most of this picturesque narrative .
On the other hand , the consensus of opinion is that , used with caution and in conjunction with other types of evidence , the native sources still provide a valid rough outline for the English settlement of southern Britain .
As Sir Charles Oman once said , `` it is no longer fashionable to declare that we can say nothing certain about Old English origins '' .
Therefore , in one way Kemble and Lappenberg have been vindicated .
Their conclusions concerning the untrustworthiness of the West Saxon annals , the confused chronology of Bede , the unreliability of the early positions of the Anglo-Saxon genealogies and the mythological elements contained in Nennius are now mostly accepted .
Nevertheless , in another way modern historians still labor in the vineyard of the Oxford school .
For it is their catastrophic concept of the Anglo-Saxon invasions rather than Kemble's gradualist approach which dominates the field .
Despite the rejection of the traditional accounts on many points of detail , as late as 1948 it was still possible to postulate a massive and comparatively sudden ( beginning in ca. 450 ) influx of Germans as the type of invasions .
At this point , of course , the issue has become complicated by a development unforeseen by Lappenberg and Kemble .
They , however much they were in disagreement with the late Victorians over the method by which Britain was Germanized , agreed with them that the end result was the complete extinction of the previous Celtic population and civilization .
But beginning , for all practical purposes , with Frederick Seebohm's English Village Community scholars have had to reckon with a theory involving institutional and agrarian continuity between Roman and Anglo-Saxon times which is completely at odds with the reigning concept of the Anglo-Saxon invasions .
Against Seebohm formidable foes have taken the field , notably F. W. Maitland , whose Domesday Book And Beyond was written expressly for this purpose , and Sir Paul Vinogradoff whose The Growth Of The Manor had a similar aim .
Largely due to their efforts the catastrophic invasion-theory has maintained its position although Seebohm has always found supporters .
H.L. Gray in his English Field Systems and Zachrisson's Romans , Kelts And Saxons defended in part the Seebohm thesis while at the present time H.P.R. Finberg and Gordon Copley seem to fall into the Celtic survivalist camp .
This is nevertheless a minority view .
Most scholars , while willing to accept a survival ( revival ? ?
) of Celtic art forms and a considerable proportion of the Celtic population , reject any institutional legacy from pre-Anglo-Saxon Britain .
Therefore , it is plain that the clear distinctions of the nineteenth century are no longer with us .
In the main stream of historical thinking is a group of scholars , H.M. Chadwick , R.H. Hodgkin , Sir Frank Stenton et al. who are in varying degrees sceptical of the native traditions of the conquest but who defend the catastrophic type of invasion suggested by them .
They , in effect , have compromised the opposing positions of the nineteenth century .
On the other side are the Celtic survivalists who have taken a tack divergent from both these schools of nineteenth century thought .
As a group they should be favorable to a concept of gradual Germanic infiltration although the specialist nature of much of their work , e.g. Seebohm , Gray and Finberg , tends to obscure their sympathies .
Those who do have occasion to deal with the invasions in a more general way , like T.W. Shore and Arthur Wade-Evans , are on the side of a gradual and often peaceful Germanic penetration into Britain .
Wade-Evans , in fact , denies that there were any Anglo-Saxon invasions at all other than a minor Jutish foray in A.D. 514 .
Now omitting for a moment some recent developments we can say the Saxon Shore hypothesis of Lappenberg and Kemble has undergone virtual eclipse in this century .
It is no longer possible to say that a sceptical attitude towards the received accounts of the invasions almost automatically produces a `` shore occupied by '' interpretation .
Everyone is more or less sceptical and virtually no one has been willing to accept Lappenberg or Kemble's position on that point .
One reason is , of course , that the new scepticism has been willing to maintain the general picture of the invasions as portrayed in the traditional sources .
The few scholars who have adopted the `` shore occupied by '' interpretation , Howorth , Shore , and Wade-Evans , have all been Celtic survivalists .
Moreover , they have done so in rather special circumstances .
The primary reason for the abandonment of the `` shore occupied by '' thesis has been the assimilation and accumulation of archaeological evidence , the most striking feature of early English studies in this century .
Again omitting recent developments , E.T. Leeds' dictum of 1913 has stood unchallenged : `` So far as archaeology is concerned , there is not the least warrant for the second ( shore occupied by ) of these theories '' .
Even earlier Haverfield had come to the same conclusion .
What they meant was that there was no evidence to show that the south and east coasts of Britain received Germanic settlers conspicuously earlier than some other parts of England .
That is , there was no trace of Anglo-Saxons in Britain as early as the late third century , to which time the archaeological evidence for the erection of the Saxon Shore forts was beginning to point .
In the face of a clear judgment from archaeology , therefore , it became impossible for a time for scholars to re-adopt the `` shore settled by '' theory .
In recent years , however , a wind of change seems to be blowing through early English historical circles .
The great increase in the amount of archaeological activity , and therefore information , in the years immediately preceeding and following the Second World War has brought to light data which has changed the complection of the Saxon Shore dispute .
Where there were none fifteen years ago , several scholars currently are edging their way cautiously towards the acceptance of the `` shore occupied by '' position .
We must , therefore , have a look at the new archaeological material and re-examine the literary and place-name evidence which bears upon the problem .
What exactly are we trying to prove ? ?
We know that the Saxon Shore was a phenonenon of late Roman defensive policy ; ;
in other words its existence belongs to the period of Roman Britain .
So whenever the Romans finally withdrew from the island , the Saxon Shore disappeared in the first decade of the fifth century .
We also know that the Saxon Shore as reflected in the Notitia was created as a part of the Theodosian reorganization of Britain ( post A.D. 369 ) .
My argument is that there was no Saxon Shore prior to that time even though the forts had been in existence since the time of Carausius .
Therefore , what we must prove or disprove is that there were Saxons , in the broad sense in which we must construe the word , in the area of the Saxon Shore at the time it was called the Saxon Shore .
That is , we must find Saxons in East Anglia , Kent , Sussex and Hampshire in the last half of the fourth century .
The problem , in other words , is strictly a chronological one .
In Gaul the Saxon element on its Saxon Shore was plainly visible because there the Saxons were an intrusive element in the population .
In Britain , obviously , the archaeological and place-name characteristics of the Saxon Shore region are bound to be Saxon .
It is a matter of trying to sort out an earlier fourth-century Saxon element from the later , fifth-century mainstream of Anglo-Saxon invasions .
This , naturally , will be difficult to do since both the archaeological and place-name evidence in this period , with some fortunate exceptions , is insufficient for precise chronological purposes .
It might be well to consider the literary evidence first because it can provide us with an answer to one important question ; ;
namely , is the idea that there were Saxon mercenaries in England at all reasonable ? ?
To do so , something was necessary beyond volunteering because there was little glamour or romance in the European war ; ;
it meant instead hardship , dirt , and death .
Baker gave Leonard Wood credit for the initiation of the draft of soldiers ; ;
from the General's idea a chain reaction occurred .
Wood took the proposal to Chief of Staff Hugh L. Scott , who passed it on to Baker a month before the actual declaration of war against Germany .
The Secretary of War gave his assent after studying the history of the draft in the American Civil War as well as the British volunteer system in World War 1 .
He concluded that selective service would not only prevent the disorganization of essential war industries but would avoid the undesirable moral effects of the British reliance on enlistment only -- `` where the feeling of the people was whipped into a frenzy by girls pinning white feathers on reluctant young men , orators preaching hate of the Germans , and newspapers exaggerating enemy outrages to make men enlist out of motives of revenge and retaliation '' .
Baker took the plan to Wilson who said : `` Baker , this is plainly right on any ground .
Start to prepare the necessary legislation so that if I am obliged to go to Congress the bills will be ready for immediate consideration '' .
The result was that by secret agreement draft machinery was actually ready long before the country knew that the device was to take the place of the volunteering method which Theodore Roosevelt favored .
Before the Draft Act was passed Baker had confidentially briefed governors , sheriffs , and prospective draft board members on the administration of the measure -- and the confidence was kept so well that only one newspaper learned what was going on .
It was Baker , working through Provost Marshal Enoch Crowder and Major Hugh S. ( `` Old Ironpants '' ) Johnson , who arranged for a secret printing by the million of selective service blanks -- again before the Act was passed -- until corridors in the Government Printing Office were full and the basement of the Washington Post Office was stacked to the ceiling .
General Crowder proposed that Regular Army officers select the draftees in cities and towns throughout the nation ; ;
it was Baker who thought of lessening the shock , which conscription always brings to a country , by substituting `` Greetings from your neighbors '' for the recruiting sergeant , and registration in familiar voting places rather than at military installations .
Even so , the Draft Act encountered rough sledding in its progress through the Congress .
Democratic Speaker Champ Clark saw little difference between a conscript and a convict .
Democrat Stanley H. Dent , Chairman of the House Military Affairs Committee , declined to introduce the bill .
Democratic Floor Leader Claude Kitchin would have no part of the measure .
In the judgment of Chief of Staff Scott it was ironic that the draft policy of a Democratic President , aimed at Germany , had to be pushed through the House of Representatives by the ranking minority member of the Military Affairs Committee -- a Republican Jew born in Germany ! !
He was Julius Kahn for whom the Chief of Staff thought no honor could be too great .
After Kahn's death in 1924 Scott wrote : `` May he rest in peace with the eternal gratitude of his adopted country '' .
In spite of powerful opposition the Draft Act finally passed Congress on May 17 , 1917 .
In early June ten million young men registered by name and number .
The day passed without incident in spite of the warning of Senator James A. Reed of Missouri : `` Baker , you will have the streets of our American cities running with blood on registration day '' .
On July 20 , the first drawing of numbers occurred in the Senate Office Building before a distinguished group of congressmen and high Army officers .
Secretary of War Baker , blindfolded , put his hand into a large glass bowl and drew the initial number of those to be called .
It was 258 .
A man in Mississippi wired : `` Thanks for drawing 258 -- that's me '' .
He was the first of 2,800,000 called to the Army through the selective service system .
It was one thing to call men to the colors ; ;
it was another to house , feed , and train them .
The existing Army posts were wholly inadequate .
In a matter of months the War Department built thirty-two camps , each one accommodating fifty thousand men -- sixteen were under canvas in the South and sixteen with frame structures in the North .
It was a gargantuan task ; ;
a typical cantonment in the North had twelve hundred buildings , an electric-sewer-water system , and twenty-five miles of roads .
At Camp Taylor in Kentucky a barracks was built in an hour and a half from timber that had been standing in Mississippi forests one week before .
The total operation was a construction project comparable in magnitude with the Panama Canal , but in 1917 time was in short supply ; ;
in three months the Army spent three-quarters as much as had been expended on the `` big Ditch '' in ten years .
In later years Josephus Daniels was to claim that World War 1 , was the first in American history in which there was great concern for both the health and morals of our soldiers .
It was the first American war in which the death rate from disease was lower than that from battle , due to the provision of trained medical personnel ( of the 200,000 officers , 42,000 were physicians ) , compulsory vaccination , rigorous camp sanitation , and adequate hospital facilities .
To the middle of September 1918 , there had been fewer than 10,000 deaths from disease in the new army .
This enviable record would have been maintained but for a great and unexpected disaster which struck the world with murderous stealth .
It was the influenza pandemic of 1918-19 .
The malady was popularly known as the `` Spanish flu '' from the alleged locale of its origin .
The world-wide total of deaths from `` Spanish flu '' was around twenty million ; ;
in the United States 300,000 succumbed to it .
In mid-September 1918 , the influenza-pneumonia pandemic swept through every American military camp ; ;
during the eight-week blitz attack 25,000 soldiers died from the disease and the death rate ( formerly 5 per year per 1,000 men ) increased almost fifty times to 4 per week per 1,000 men .
In spite of this catastrophe the final mortality figure from disease in the American Army during World War 1 , was 15 per 1,000 per year , contrasted with 110 per 1,000 per year in the Mexican War , and 65 in the American Civil War .
Both Secretary of War Baker and Secretary of Navy Daniels devoted much time and effort to the problem of providing reasonably normal and wholesome activities in camp for the millions of men who had been removed from their home environment .
Their policy ran counter to the traditional idea that a good fighter was usually a libertine , and that in sex affairs `` God-given passion '' was a proof of manliness .
Baker moved first ; ;
six days after war was declared he appointed Raymond Fosdick chairman of the Commission on Training Camp Activities ( the CTCA ) .
Fosdick , a brother of minister Harry Emerson Fosdick , was a graduate of Princeton , and a member of Phi Beta Kappa and the American Philosophical Association .
His assignment was not a new one because Baker had sent him to the Mexican border in 1916 to investigate lurid newspaper stories about lack of discipline , drunkenness , and venereal disease in American military camps .
Fosdick had found the installations surrounded by a battery of saloons and houses of prostitution , with filles de joie from all over the country flocking to San Antonio , Laredo , and El Paso to `` woman the cribs '' .
He also ascertained that many officers were indifferent to the problem , including Commanding General Frederick Funston who gave Fosdick the nickname of `` Reverend '' .
On the basis of the long chronicle of military history Funston and his brethren assumed that the issue was insoluble and that anyone interested in a mission like Fosdick's was an impractical idealist or a do-gooder .
During the brief Mexican venture Fosdick's report to the Secretary recommended a definite stand by the War Department against the saloon and the excesses of prostitution .
The problem involved military necessity as much as morality , for in pre-penicillin days venereal disease was a crippling disability .
Fosdick insisted that a strong word was needed from Washington , and it was immediately forthcoming .
Baker put the `` cribs '' and the saloons out of bounds , ordered the co-operation of military officers with local law authorities , and told communities that the troops would be moved unless wholesome conditions were restored .
Both Baker and Fosdick knew that a substitute was necessary , that a verboten approach was not the real answer .
They were aware that soldiers went to town , in more ways than one , because of the monotony of camp life , to find the only release available in the absence of movies , reading rooms , and playing fields with adequate athletic equipment .
Both knew that when trains stopped at Texan crossroads bored soldiers would sometimes enter to ask the passengers if they had any reading material to spare , even a newspaper .
There was no time in the short Mexican encounter to evolve a solution but the area provided a proving ground for new departures in the near future .
When the United States entered the First World War Baker made certain that the Draft Act of 1917 prohibited the sale of liquor to men in uniform and that it provided for broad zones around the camps in which prostitution was outlawed .
Even so Fosdick , as the new Chairman of the Commission on Training Camp Activities , encountered strong and vociferous opposition .
New Orleans had a notorious red-light district extending over twenty-eight city blocks , and the business-minded mayor of the city journeyed to Washington to present the case for `` the God-given right of men to be men '' .
In Europe , Premier Clemenceau , showing his animal proclivities as the `` Tiger of France '' , asked Pershing by letter for the creation of special houses where the sexual desires of American men could be satisfied .
When Fosdick showed the letter to Baker his negative response was : `` For God's sake , Raymond , don't show this to the President or he'll stop the war '' .
Ultimately Fosdick's `` Fit to fight '' slogan swept across the country and every well-known red-light district in the United States was closed , a hundred and ten of them .
The result was that the rate of venereal disease in the American Army was the lowest in our military history .
This was the negative side of the situation .
Affirmatively Baker worked on the premise that `` young men spontaneously prefer to be decent , and that opportunities for wholesome recreation are the best possible cure for irregularities in conduct which arise from idleness and the baser temptations '' .
The wholesome activities were to be provided by many organizations including the YMCA , the Knights of Columbus , the Jewish Welfare Board , the American Library Association , and the Playground and Recreation Association -- private societies which voluntarily performed the job that was taken over almost entirely by the Special Services Division of the Army itself in World War 2 .
Over these voluntary agencies , in 1917-18 , the CTCA served as a co-ordinating body in carrying out what Survey called `` the most stupendous piece of social work in modern times '' .
Under Fosdick the first executive officer of the CTCA was Richard Byrd , whose name in later years was to become synonymous with activities at the polar antipodes .
From the point of view of popularity the best-known member of the Commission was Walter Camp , the Yale athlete whose sobriquet was `` the father of American football '' .
He was placed in charge of athletics , and among other things adapted the type of calisthenics known as the daily dozen .
The CTCA program of activities was profuse : William Farnum and Mary Pickford on the screen , Elsie Janis and Harry Lauder on the stage , books provided by the American Library Association , full equipment for games and sports -- except that no `` bones '' were furnished for the all-time favorite pastime played on any floor and known as `` African golf '' .
The CTCA distributed a khaki-bound songbook that provided the impetus for spirited renditions of the selections found therein , plus a number of others whose lyrics were more earthy -- from `` Johnny Get Your Gun '' to `` Keep The Home Fires Burning '' to `` Mademoiselle From Armentieres '' .
In the imagination of the nineteenth century the Greek tragedians and Shakespeare stand side by side , their affinity transcending all the immense contrarieties of historical circumstance , religious belief , and poetic form .
We no longer use the particular terms of Lessing and Victor Hugo .
But we abide by their insight .
The word `` tragedy '' encloses for us in a single span both the Greek and the Elizabethan example .
The sense of relationship overreaches the historical truth that Shakespeare may have known next to nothing of the actual works of Aeschylus , Sophocles , and Euripides .
It transcends the glaring fact that the Elizabethans mixed tragedy and comedy whereas the Greeks kept the two modes severely distinct .
It overcomes our emphatic awareness of the vast difference in the shape and fabric of the two languages and styles of dramatic presentation .
The intimations of a related spirit and ordering of human values are stronger than any sense of disparity .
Comparable visions of life are at work in Antigone and Romeo And Juliet .
We see at once what Victor Hugo means when he calls Macbeth a northern scion of the house of Atreus .
Elsinore seems to lie in a range of Mycenae , and the fate of Orestes resounds in that of Hamlet .
The hounds of hell search out their quarry in Apollo's sanctuary as they do in the tent of Richard 3 .
Oedipus and Lear attain similar insights by virtue of similar blindness .
It is not between Euripides and Shakespeare that the western mind turns away from the ancient tragic sense of life .
It is after the late seventeenth century .
I say the late seventeenth century because Racine ( whom Lessing did not really know ) stands on the far side of the chasm .
The image of man which enters into force with Aeschylus is still vital in Phedre and Athalie .
It is the triumph of rationalism and secular metaphysics which marks the point of no return .
Shakespeare is closer to Sophocles than he is to Pope and Voltaire .
To say this is to set aside the realness of time .
But it is true , nevertheless .
The modes of the imagination implicit in Athenian tragedy continued to shape the life of the mind until the age of Descartes and Newton .
It is only then that the ancient habits of feeling and the classic orderings of material and psychological experience were abandoned .
With the Discours de la methode and the Principia the things undreamt of in Horatio's philosophy seem to pass from the world .
In Greek tragedy as in Shakespeare , mortal actions are encompassed by forces which transcend man .
The reality of Orestes entails that of the Furies ; ;
the Weird Sisters wait for the soul of Macbeth .
We cannot conceive of Oedipus without a Sphinx , nor of Hamlet without a Ghost .
The shadows cast by the personages of Greek and Shakespearean drama lengthen into a greater darkness .
And the entirety of the natural world is party to the action .
The thunderclaps over the sacred wood at Colonus and the storms in King Lear are caused by more than weather .
In tragedy , lightning is a messenger .
But it can no longer be so once Benjamin Franklin ( the incarnation of the new rational man ) has flown a kite to it .
The tragic stage is a platform extending precariously between heaven and hell .
Those who walk on it may encounter at any turn ministers of grace or damnation .
Oedipus and Lear instruct us how little of the world belongs to man .
Mortality is the pacing of a brief and dangerous watch , and to all sentinels , whether at Elsinore or on the battlements at Mycenae , the coming of dawn has its breath of miracle .
It banishes the night wanderers to fire or repose .
But at the touch of Hume and Voltaire the noble or hideous visitations which had haunted the mind since Agamemnon's blood cried out for vengeance , disappeared altogether or took tawdry refuge among the gaslights of melodrama .
Modern roosters have lost the art of crowing restless spirits back to Purgatory .
In Athens , in Shakespeare's England , and at Versailles , the hierarchies of worldly power were stable and manifest .
The wheel of social life spun around the royal or aristocratic centre .
From it , spokes of order and degree led to the outward rim of the common man .
Tragedy presumes such a configuration .
Its sphere is that of royal courts , dynastic quarrels , and vaulting ambitions .
The same metaphors of swift ascent and calamitous decline apply to Oedipus and Macbeth because they applied also to Alcibiades and Essex .
And the fate of such men has tragic relevance because it is public .
Agamemnon , Creon , and Medea perform their tragic actions before the eyes of the polis .
Similarly the sufferings of Hamlet , Othello , or Phedre engage the fortunes of the state .
They are enacted at the heart of the body politic .
Hence the natural setting of tragedy is the palace gate , the public square , or the court chamber .
Greek and Elizabethan life and , to a certain extent , the life of Versailles shared this character of intense `` publicity '' .
Princes and factions clashed in the open street and died on the open scaffold .
With the rise to power of the middle class the centre of gravity in human affairs shifted from the public to the private .
The art of Defoe and Richardson is founded on an awareness of this great change .
Heretofore an action had possessed the breadth of tragedy only if it involved high personages and if it occurred in the public view .
Behind the tragic hero stands the chorus , the crowd , or the observant courtier .
In the eighteenth century there emerges for the first time the notion of a private tragedy ( or nearly for the first time , there having been a small number of Elizabethan domestic tragedies such as the famous Arden Of Feversham ) .
In La Nouvelle-Heloise and Werther tragedy is made intimate .
And private tragedy became the chosen ground not of drama , but of the new , unfolding art of the novel .
The novel was not only the presenter of the new , secular , rationalistic , private world of the middle class .
It served also as a literary form exactly appropriate to the fragmented audience of modern urban culture .
I have said before how difficult it is to make any precise statements with regard to the character of the Greek and Elizabethan public .
But one major fact seems undeniable .
Until the advent of rational empiricism the controlling habits of the western mind were symbolic and allegoric .
Available evidence regarding the natural world , the course of history , and the varieties of human action were translated into imaginative designs or mythologies .
Classic mythology and Christianity are such architectures of the imagination .
They order the manifold levels of reality and moral value along an axis of being which extends from brute matter to the immaculate stars .
There had not yet supervened between understanding and expression the new languages of mathematics and scientific formulas .
The poet was by definition a realist , his imaginings and parables being natural organizations of reality .
And in these organizations certain primal notions played a radiant part , radiant both in the sense of giving light and of being a pole toward which all perspectives converge .
I mean such concepts as the presence of the supernatural in human affairs , the sacraments of grace and divine retribution , the idea of preordainment ( the oracle over Oedipus , the prophecy of the witches to Macbeth , or God's covenant with His people in Athalie ) .
I refer to the notion that the structure of society is a microcosm of the cosmic design and that history conforms to patterns of justice and chastisement as if it were a morality play set in motion by the gods for our instruction .
These conceptions and the manner in which they were transposed into poetry or engendered by poetic form are intrinsic to western life from the time of Aeschylus to that of Shakespeare .
And although they were , as I have indicated , under increasing strain at the time of Racine , they are still alive in his theatre .
They are the essential force behind the conventions of tragedy .
They are as decisively present in the Oresteia and Oedipus as in Macbeth , King Lear , and Phedre .
After the seventeenth century the audience ceased to be an organic community to which these ideas and their attendant habits of figurative language would be natural or immediately familiar .
Concepts such as grace , damnation , purgation , blasphemy , or the chain of being , which are everywhere implicit in classic and Shakespearean tragedy , lose their vitality .
They become philosophic abstractions of a private and problematic relevance , or mere catchwords in religious customs which had in them a diminishing part of active belief .
After Shakespeare the master spirits of western consciousness are no longer the blind seers , the poets , or Orpheus performing his art in the face of hell .
They are Descartes , Newton , and Voltaire .
And their chroniclers are not the dramatic poets but the prose novelists .
The romantics were the immediate inheritors of this tremendous change .
They were not yet prepared to accept it as irremediable .
Rousseau's primitivism , the anti-Newtonian mythology of Blake , Coleridge's organic metaphysics , Victor Hugo's image of the poets as the Magi , and Shelley's `` unacknowledged legislators '' are related elements in the rear-guard action fought by the romantics against the new scientific rationalism .
From this action sprang the idea of somehow uniting Greek and Shakespearean drama into a new total form , capable of restoring to life the ancient moral and poetic responses .
The dream of achieving a synthesis between the Sophoclean and the Shakespearean genius inspired the ambitions of poets and composers from the time of Shelley and Victor Hugo to that of Bayreuth .
It could not really be fulfilled .
The conventions into which the romantics tried to breath life no longer corresponded to the realities of thought and feeling .
But the attempt itself produced a number of brilliant works , and these form a transition from the early romantic period to the new age of Ibsen and Chekhov .
The wedding of the Hellenic to the northern genius was one of the dominant motifs in Goethe's thought .
His Italian journey was a poet's version of those perennial thrusts across the Alps of the German emperors of the Middle Ages .
The dream of a descent into the gardens of the south always drew German ambitions toward Rome and Sicily .
Goethe asks in Wilhelm Meister whether we know the land where the lemon trees flower , and the light of the Mediterranean glows through Torquato Tasso and the Roman Elegies .
Goethe believed that the Germanic spirit , with its grave strength but flagrant streaks of brutality and intolerance , should be tempered with the old sensuous wisdom and humanism of the Hellenic .
On the narrower ground of poetic form , he felt that in the drama of the future the Greek conception of tragic fate should be joined to the Shakespearean vision of tragic will .
The wager between God and Satan brings on the destiny of Faust , but Faust assumes his role voluntarily .
The third Act of Faust 2 , is a formal celebration of the union between the Germanic and the classic , between the spirit of Euripides and that of romantic drama .
The motif of Faust's love for Helen of Troy goes back to the sources of the Faustian legend .
It tells us of the ancient human desire to see the highest wisdom joined to the highest sensual beauty .
There can be no greater magic than to wrest from death her in whom the flesh was all , in whom beauty was entirely pure because it was entirely corruptible .
It is thus that the brightness of Helen passes through Marlowe's Faustus .
Goethe used the fable to more elaborate ends .
Faust rescuing Helen from Menelaus' vengeance is the genius of renaissance Europe restoring to life the classic tradition .
The necromantic change from the palace at Sparta to Faust's Gothic castle directs us to the aesthetic meaning of the myth -- the translation of antique drama into Shakespearean and romantic guise .
This translation , or rather the fusion of the two ideals , creates the Gesamtkunstwerke , the `` total art form '' .
The Bishop of Gloucester described the elder Thomas in 1577 as the richest recusant in his diocese , worth five hundred pounds a year in lands and goods .
When Quiney and William Parsons wrote to Greville in 1593 asking his consent in the election for bailiff , they sent the letter to Mr. William Sawnders , attendant on the worshipful Mr. Thomas Bushell at Marston .
Mr. Bushell was mentioned in 1602 in the will of Joyce Hobday , widow of a Stratford glover .
Thomas the elder married twice , had seventeen children , and died in 1615 .
His daughter Elinor married Quiney's son Adrian in 1613 , and his son Henry married Mary Lane of Stratford in 1609 .
His son Thomas , aged fifteen when he entered Oxford in 1582 , married as his first wife Margaret , sister of Sir Edward Greville .
Bridges , a son by his second wife , was christened at Pebworth in 1607 , but Thomas the younger was living at Packwood two years later and sold Broad Marston manor in 1622 .
A third Thomas Bushell ( 1594-1674 ) , `` much loved '' by Bacon , called himself `` The Superlative Prodigall '' in The First Part of Youths Errors ( 1628 ) and became an expert on silver mines and on the art of running into debt .
Edward Greville , born about 1565 , had inherited Milcote on the execution of his father Lodowick for murder in 1589 .
He refused his consent to the election of Quiney as bailiff in 1592 , but gave it at the request of the recorder , his cousin Sir Fulke Greville .
The corporation entertained him for dinner at Quiney's house in 1596/7 , with wine and sugar sent by the bailiff , Sturley .
At Milcote on November 3 , 1597 , the aldermen asked him to support their petition for a new charter .
Sturley wrote to Quiney that Sir Edward `` gave his allowance and liking thereof , and affied unto us his best endeavour , so that his rights be preserved '' , and that `` Sir Edward saith we shall not be at any fault for money for prosecuting the cause , for himself will procure it and lay it down for us for the time '' .
Greville proposed Quiney as the fittest man `` for the following of the cause and to attend him in the matter '' , and at his suggestion the corporation allowed Quiney two shillings a day .
`` If you can firmly make the good knight sure to pleasure our Corporation '' , Sturley wrote , `` besides that ordinary allowance for your diet you shall have 20 for recompence '' .
In his letter mentioning Shakespeare on January 24 , 1597/8 , Sturley asked Quiney especially that `` theare might ( be ) bi Sir Ed. Grev. some meanes made to the Knightes of the Parliament for an ease and discharge of such taxes and subsedies wherewith our towne is like to be charged , and I assure u I am in great feare and doubte bi no meanes hable to paie .
Sir Ed. Gre. is gonne to Brestowe and from thence to Lond. as I heare , who verie well knoweth our estates and wil be willinge to do us ani good '' .
The knights for Warwickshire in this parliament , which ended its session on February 9 , were Fulke Greville ( the poet ) and William Combe of Warwick , as Fulke Greville and Edward Greville had been in 1593 .
The corporation voted on September 27 , 1598 , that Quiney should ride to London about the suit to Sir John Fortescue , chancellor of the Exchequer , for discharging of the tax and subsidy .
He had been in London for several weeks when he wrote to Shakespeare on October 25 .
Sturley on November 4 answered a letter from Quiney written on October 25 which imported , wrote Sturley , `` that our countriman Mr. Wm. Shak. would procure us monei : which I will like of as I shall heare when , wheare & howe : and I prai let not go that occasion if it mai sort to ani indifferent condicions .
Allso that if monei might be had for 30 or 40 a lease & might be procured '' .
Sturley quoted Quiney as having written on November 1 that if he had `` more monei presente much might be done to obtaine our Charter enlargd , ij faires more , with tole of corne , bestes , and sheepe , and a matter of more valewe then all that '' .
Sturley thought that this matter might be `` the rest of the tithes and the College houses and landes in our towne '' .
He suggested offering half to Sir Edward , fearing lest `` he shall thinke it to good for us and procure it for himselfe , as he served us the last time '' .
This refers to what had happened after the Earl of Warwick died in 1590 , when the town petitioned Burghley for the right to name the vicar and schoolmaster and other privileges but Greville bought the lordship for himself .
Sturley's allusion probably explains why Greville took out the patent in the names of Best and Wells , for Sir Anthony Ashley described Best as `` a scrivener within Temple Bar , that deals in many matters for my L. Essex '' through Sir Gelly Merrick , especially in `` causes that he would not be known of '' .
Adrian Quiney wrote to his son Richard on October 29 and again perhaps the next day , since the bearer of the letter , the bailiff , was expected to reach London on November 1 .
In his second letter the old mercer advised his son `` to bye some such warys as yow may selle presentlye with profet .
Yff yow bargen with Wm. Sha. ( so in the MS ) or Receave money ther or brynge your money home yow maye see howe knite stockynges be sold ther ys gret byinge of them at Aysshom .
Wherefore I thynke yow maye doo good yff yow can have money '' .
This seems to refer , not to the loan Richard had asked for , but to a proposed bargain with Shakespeare .
Richard Quiney the younger , a schoolboy of eleven , wrote a letter in Latin asking his father to buy copybooks ( `` chartaceos libellos ) '' ) for him and his brother .
His mother Bess , who could not write herself , reminded her husband through Sturley to buy the apron he had promised her and `` a suite of hattes for 5 boies the yongst lined & trimmed with silke '' ( for John , only a year old ) .
A letter signed `` Isabell Bardall '' entreated `` Good Cozen '' Quiney to find her stepson Adrian , son of George Bardell , a place in London with some handicraftsman .
William Parsons and William Walford , drapers , asked Quiney to see to business matters in London .
Daniel Baker deluged his `` Unckle Quyne '' with requests to pay money for him to drapers in Watling Street and at the Two Cats in Canning Street .
His letter of October 26 named two of the men about whom Quiney had written to Shakespeare the day before .
Baker wrote : `` I tooke order with Sr. E. Grevile for the payment of Ceartaine monei beefore his going towardes London .
& synce I did write unto him to dessier him to paie 10 for mee which standeth mee greatly uppon to have paide .
& 20 more Mr. Peeter Rowswell tooke order with his master to paie for mee '' .
He asked Quiney to find out whether the money had been paid and , if not , to send to the lodging of Sir Edward and entreat him to pay what he owed .
Baker added : `` I pray you delivre these inclosed Letters And Comend mee to Mr. Rychard Mytton whoe I know will ffreind mee for the payment of this monei '' .
Further letters in November mention that Sir Edward paid forty pounds .
Stratford's petition to the queen declared that two great fires had burnt two hundred houses in the town , with household goods , to the value of twelve thousand pounds .
The chancellor of the Exchequer wrote on the petition : `` in myn opinion it is very resonable and conscionable for hir maiestie to graunt in relief of this towne twise afflicted and almost wasted by fire '' .
The queen agreed on December 17 , a warrant was signed on January 27 , and the Exchequer paid Quiney his expenses on February 27 , 1598/9 .
He listed what he had spent for `` My own diet in London eighteen weeks , in which I was sick a month ; ;
my mare at coming up 14 days ; ;
another I bought there to bring me home 7 weeks ; ;
and I was six days going thither and coming homewards ; ;
all which cost me at the least 20 pounds '' .
He was allowed forty-four pounds in all , including fees to the masters of requests , Mr. Fanshawe of the Exchequer , the solicitor general , and other officials and their clerks .
If he borrowed money from Shakespeare or with his help , he would now have been able to repay the loan .
Since more is known about Quiney than about any other acquaintance of Shakespeare in Stratford , his career may be followed to its sudden end in 1602 .
During 1598 and 1599 he made `` manye Guiftes of myne owne provision bestowed uppon Cowrtiers & others for the better effectinge of our suites in hande '' .
He was in London `` searching records for our town's causes '' in 1600 with young Henry Sturley , the assistant schoolmaster .
When Sir Edward Greville enclosed the town commons on the Bancroft , Quiney and others leveled his hedges on January 21 , 1600/1 , and were charged with riot by Sir Edward .
He also sued them for taking toll of grain at their market .
Accompanied by `` Master Greene our solicitor '' ( Thomas Greene of the Middle Temple , Shakespeare's `` cousin '' ) , Quiney tried to consult Sir Edward Coke , attorney general , and gave money to a clerk and a doorkeeper `` that we might have access to their master for his counsel butt colde nott have him att Leasure by the reason of thees trobles '' ( the Essex rising on February 8 ) .
He set down that `` I gave Mr. Greene a pynte of muskadell and a roll of bread that last morning I went to have his company to Master Attorney '' .
After returning Stratford he drew up a defense of the town's right to toll corn and the office of collecting it , and his list of suggested witnesses included his father and Shakespeare's father .
No one , he wrote , took any corn of Greville's , for his bailiff of husbandry `` swore a greate oathe thatt who soe came to put hys hande into hys sackes for anye corne shuld leave hys hande behynde hym '' .
Quiney was in London again in June , 1601 , and in November , when he rode up , as Shakespeare must often have done , by way of Oxford , High Wycombe , and Uxbridge , and home through Aylesbury and Banbury .
After Quiney was elected bailiff in September , 1601 , without Greville's approval , Greene wrote him that Coke had promised to be of counsel for Stratford and had advised `` that the office of bayly may be exercised as it is taken upon you , ( Sr. Edwardes his consent not beinge hadd to the swearinge of you ) '' .
Asked by the townsmen to cease his suit , Greville had answered that `` hytt shulde coste hym 500 first & sayed it must be tried ether before my Lorde Anderson in the countrey or his uncle Ffortescue in the exchequer with whom he colde more prevaile then we '' .
The corporation proposed Chief Justice Anderson for an arbiter , sending him a gift of sack and claret .
Lady Greville , daughter of the late Lord Chancellor Bromley and niece of Sir John Fortescue , was offered twenty pounds by the townsmen to make peace ; ;
she `` labored & thought she shuld effecte '' it but her husband said that `` we shuld wynne it by the sworde '' .
His servant Robin Whitney threatened Quiney , who had Whitney bound to `` the good abaringe '' to keep the peace .
A report of Sr. Edw Grevyles minaces to the Baileefe Aldermen & Burgesses of Stratforde '' tells how Quiney was injured by Greville's men : `` in the tyme Mr. Ryc' Quyney was bayleefe ther came some of them whoe beinge druncke fell to braweling in ther hosts howse wher thei druncke & drewe ther dagers uppon the hoste : att a faier tyme the Baileefe being late abroade to see the towne in order & comminge by in hurley burley came into the howse & commawnded the peace to be kept butt colde nott prevayle & in hys endevor to sticle the brawle had his heade grevouselye brooken by one of hys ( Greville's ) men whom nether hymselfe ( Greville ) punnished nor wolde suffer to be punnished but with a shewe to turne them awaye & enterteyned agayne '' .
The fall of Rome , the discovery of precious metals , and the Protestant Reformation were all links and could only be explained and understood by comprehending the links that preceded and those that followed .
Often the historian must consider the use of intuition or instinct by those individuals or nations which he is studying .
Unconsciously , governments or races or institutions may enter into some undertaking without fully realizing why they are doing so .
They react in obedience to an instinct or urge which has itself been impelled by natural law .
A court may strike down a law on the basis of an intuitive feeling that the law is inimical to the numerical majority .
A nation may go to war on some trifling pretext , when in reality it may have been guided by an unconscious instinct that its very life was at stake .
When the historian encounters a situation in which he can perceive no visible cause and effect sequence , he should be alert to intuition and unconscious instinct as possible guides .
Adams firmly contended that the historian must never underrate the impact of the geographical environment on history .
Here was another indispensable tool .
Indeed , he concluded that `` geographical conditions have exercised a great , possibly a preponderating , influence over man's destiny '' .
The failure of Greece to reach the imperial destiny that Periclean Athens had seemed to promise was almost directly attributable to her physical conformation .
All areas of history were either favorably or adversely affected by the geographical environment , and no respectable historian could pursue the study of history without a thorough knowledge of geography .
Brooks Adams was consistent in his admonishments to historians about the necessary tools or insights they needed to possess .
However , as a practicing historian , he , himself , has left few clues to the amount of professional scholarship that he used when writing history .
In fact , if judgments are to be rendered upon the soundness of his historicism , they must be based on scanty evidence .
What evidence is available would seem to indicate that Brooks , unlike his older brother Henry , had most of the methodological vices usually found in the amateur .
A credulousness , a distaste for documentation , an uncritical reliance on contemporary accounts , and a proneness to assume a theory as true before adequate proof was provided were all evidences of his failure to comprehend the use of the scientific method or to evaluate the responsibilities of the historian to his reading public .
This is not to assume that his work was without merit , but the validity of his assumptions concerning the meaning of history must always be considered against this background of an unprofessional approach .
His credulity is perhaps best illustrated in his introduction to The Emancipation Of Massachusetts , which purports to examine the trials of Moses and to draw a parallel between the leader of the Israelite exodus from Egypt and the leadership of the Puritan clergy in colonial New England .
Much criticism has been leveled at this rather forced analogy , but what is equally significant is Adams' complete acceptance of the Biblical record as `` good and trustworthy history '' .
In light of the scholarly reappraisals engendered by the higher criticism this is a most remarkable statement , particularly coming from one who was well known for his antifundamentalist views .
The desire to substantiate a thesis at the expense of sound research technique smacks more of the propagandist than the historian .
A similar amateurish characteristic is revealed in Adams' failure to check the accuracy and authenticity of his informational sources .
If he found data that fitted his general plan , he used it and counted his sources trustworthy .
Conversely , if statistics were uncovered which contradicted a cherished theory , the sources were denounced as faulty .
Such manipulations are frequently encountered in his essay on the suppression of the monasteries during the English reformation .
Adams depended largely on the dispatches of foreign ambassadors and observers in England , claiming that the reports of such agents had to be accurate because there were no newspapers .
This is certainly an irrational dogmatism , in which the modern mind attempts to understand the spirit of the sixteenth century on twentieth-century terms .
Moreover , he rejects the contemporary accounts of Englishmen , casually adjudging them to be distorted by prejudice because `` the opinions of Englishmen are of no great value '' .
What is exposited by this observation is not the inherent prejudices of Englishmen but the Anglophobia of Brooks Adams .
In all fairness it must be admitted that Adams made no pretense at being an impartial historian .
Impartiality to him meant an unwillingness to generalize and to search for a synthesis .
He deplored the impact of German historiography on the writing of history , terming it a `` dismal monster '' .
Ranke and his disciples had reduced history to a profession of dullness ; ;
Brooks Adams preferred the chronicles of Froissart or the style and theorizing of Edward Gibbon , for at least they took a stand on the issues about which they wrote .
He wrote eloquently to William James that impartial history was not only impossible but undesirable .
If the historian was convinced of his own correctness , then he should not allow his vision to become fogged by disturbing facts .
It was history that must be in error , not the historian .
It was this basic trait that separated Adams from the ranks of professional historians and led him to commit time and time again what was his most serious offense against the historical method -- namely , the tendency to assume the truth of an hypothesis before submitting it to the test of facts .
All of Adams' work reflects this dogmatic characteristic .
No page seems to be complete without the statement of at least one unproved generalization .
One example of this was his assertion that `` all servile revolts must be dealt with by physical force '' .
There is no explanation of terms nor a qualification that most such revolts have been dealt with by force -- only a bald dogmatism that they must , because of some undefined compulsion , be so repelled .
On matters of race he was similarly inflexible : `` Most of the modern Latin races seem to have inherited the rigidity of the Roman mind '' .
He cites the French Revolution as typifying this rigidity but makes no mention of the Italians , who have been able to adapt to all types of circumstances .
He pontificates that `` one of the first signs of advancing civilization is the fall in the value of women in men's eyes '' .
It made no difference that most evidence points to an opposite conclusion .
For Adams had made up his mind before all the facts were available .
All critics of Adams and his methods have observed this particular deficiency .
J. T. Shotwell was appalled by such spurious history as that which attributed the fall of the Carolingian empire to the woolen trade , and he urged Adams to `` transform his essay into a real history , embodying not merely those facts which fit into his theory , but also the modifications and exceptions '' .
A. M. Wergeland called the Adams method literally antihistorical , while Clive Day maintained that the assumptions were not confined to theories alone but were also applicable to straight factual evidence .
Moreover , stated Day , `` He always omits facts which tend to disprove his hypothesis '' .
Even D. A. Wasson , who compared The Emancipation Of Massachusetts to the lifting of a fog from ancient landscapes , was also forced to admit the methodological deficiencies of the author .
In summary , Brooks Adams felt that the nature of history was order and that the order so discovered was as much subject to historical laws as the forces of nature .
Moreover , he believed that most professional historians lacked some of the essential instruments for a proper study of history .
However , despite the insight of many of his observations , his own conclusions are open to suspicion because of his failure to employ at all times the correct research methods .
This should not prejudice an evaluation of his findings , but they were not the findings of a completely impartial investigator .
What was perhaps more important than his concept of the nature of history and the historical method were those forces which shaped the direction of his thought .
In the final analysis his contribution to American historiography was founded on almost intuitive insights into religion , economics , and Darwinism , the three factors which conditioned his search for a law of history .
Religion without supernaturalism
Brooks Adams considered religion as an extremely significant manifestation of man's fear of the unknown .
But it was nothing more than that .
Religion and the churches were institutions which had been created by man , not God .
He did not deny God ; ;
he simply did not believe that a Creator intervened or interfered in human affairs .
The historian need not be concerned with the philosophical problems suggested by religion .
There was no evidence , either of a positive or negative type , of the actions of a Divine Being in this world ; ;
and , since the historian should only be interested in strictly terrestrial activity , his research should eliminate the supernatural .
Furthermore , he must regard religion as the expression of human forces .
Certainly , he must recognize its power and attempt to ascertain its influence on the flow of history , but he must not confuse the natural and the mundane with the divine .
Adams was not breaking new ground when he claimed that the worship of an unseen power was in reality a reflection of man's inability to cope with his environment .
Students of anthropology and comparative religion had long been aware that there was , indeed , a direct connection .
But Adams was one of the first to suggest that this human incompetence was the only motivating factor behind religion .
It was this fear which explained the development of a priestly caste whose function in society was to mollify and appease the angry deities .
To keep themselves entrenched in power , the priests were forced to demonstrate their unique status through the miracle .
It was the use of the supernatural that kept them in business .
The German barbarians of the fourth century offered an excellent example :
`` The Germans in the fourth century were a very simple race , who comprehended little of natural laws , and who therefore referred phenomena they did not understand to supernatural intervention .
This intervention could only be controlled by priests , and thus the invasions caused a rapid rise in the influence of the sacred class .
The power of every ecclesiastical organization has always rested on the miracle , and the clergy have always proved their divine commission as did Elijah '' .
Adams contended that once such a special class had been created it became a vested interest and sought to maintain itself by assuming exclusive control over the relationships between God and man .
Thus , the Church was born and because of its intrinsic character was soon identified as a conservative institution , determined to resist the forces of change , to identify itself with the political rulers , and to maintain a kind of splendid isolation from the masses .
Doctrine was not only mysterious ; ;
it was also sacred , `` and no believer in an inspired church could tolerate having her canons examined as we should examine human laws '' .
These basic ideas concerning the nature of religion were , Adams believed , some of the major keys to the understanding of history and the movement of society .
The dark views about the Puritans found in The Emancipation Of Massachusetts were never altered .
Despite their adherence to the status quo , the forces of organized religion were compelled to make adjustments as increasing civilization augmented human knowledge .
In The Law Of Civilization And Decay Brooks Adams traced this evolution , always pointing to the fact that although the forms became more rational , the substance remained unchanged .
The relic worship and monasticism of the Middle Ages were more advanced forms than were primitive fetish worship and nature myths .
Yet , the idea imbedded in each was identical : to surround the unknown with mystery and to isolate that class which had been given special dominion over the secrets of God .
To Adams that age in which religion exercised power over the entire culture of the race was one of imagination , and it is largely the admiration he so obviously held for such eras that betrays a peculiar religiosity -- a sentiment he would have probably denied .
Stephens had written his classic `` incidents of travel '' about these regions a hundred years before , and Catherwood , who had studied Piranesi in London and the great ruins of Egypt and Greece , had drawn the splendid illustrations that accompanied the text .
Catherwood , an architect in New York , had been forgotten , like Stephens , and Victor reconstructed their lives as one reconstructs , for a museum , a dinosaur from two or three petrified bones .
He had unearthed Stephens's letters in a New Jersey farmhouse and he discovered Stephens's unmarked grave in an old cemetery on the east side of New York , where the great traveller had been hastily buried during a cholera epidemic .
Victor had been stirred by my account of him in Makers And Finders , for Stephens was one of the lost writers whom Melville had seen in his childhood and whom I was bent on resurrecting .
Victor had led an adventurous life .
His metier was the American tropics , and he had lived all over Latin America and among the primitive tribes on the Amazon river .
Well he knew the sleepless nights , the howling sore-ridden dogs and the biting insects in the villages of the Kofanes and Huitotoes .
He had not yet undertaken the great exploit of his later years , the rediscovery of the ancient Inca highway , the route of Pizarro in Peru , but he had climbed to the original El Dorado , the Andean lake of Guatemala , and he had scaled the southern Sierra Nevada with its Tibetan-like people and looked into the emerald mines of Muzo .
As a naturalist living for two years at the headwaters of the Amazon , he had collected specimens for Mexican museums , and he had taken to the London zoo a live quetzal , the sacred bird of the old Mayans .
In fact , he had raised quetzal birds in his camp in the forest of Ecuador .
Moreover , he had spent six months on the Galapagos islands , among the great turtles that Captain Cook had found there , and now and then he would disappear into some small island of the West Indies .
Victor's book on John Lloyd Stephens was largely written in my study in the house at Weston .
I had had my name taken out of the telephone book , and this was partly because of a convict who had been discharged from Sing Sing and who called me night after night .
He said he was a friend of Heywood Broun who had run a free employment bureau for several months during the depression , but the generous Broun to whom I wrote did not know his name and I somehow conceived the morbid notion that the man in question was prowling round the house .
But one day came the voice of a man I had known when he was a boy , and I later remembered that this boy , thirty years before , had struck me as coming to no good .
There had been something sinister about him that warned me against him , -- I had never felt that way about any other boy , -- but when he uttered his name on the telephone I had forgotten this and I was glad to do what he asked of me .
He was a captain , he said , in the army , and on the train to New York his purse and all his money had been stolen , and would I lend him twenty-five dollars to be given him at the General Delivery window ? ?
Never hearing from him again , I remembered the little boy of whom I had had such doubts when he was ten years old .
We lived for a while in a movie melodrama with a German cook and her son who turned out to be Nazis .
Finally we got them out of the house , after the boy had run away four times looking for other Nazis , threatening to murder village schoolchildren and bragging that he was to be the next Fuhrer .
Then he began to have epileptic fits .
We found that a charitable society in New York had a long case-history of the two ; ;
and they agreed to see that the tragic pair would not put poison in anybody else's soup .
To the Weston house came once William Allen Neilson , the president of Smith College who had been one of my old professors and who still called me `` Boy '' when I was sixty .
It reminded me of my other professor , Edward Kennard Rand , of whom I had been so fond when I was at Harvard , the great mediaevalist and classical scholar who had asked me to call him `` Ken '' , saying , `` Age counts for nothing among those who have learned to know life sub specie aeternitatis '' .
I had always thought of that lovable man as many years older than myself , although he was perhaps only twenty years older , and he confirmed my feeling , along with the feeling of both my sons , that teachers of the classics are invariably endearing .
I must have written to say how much I had enjoyed his fine book The Building Of Eternal Rome , and I found he had not regretted giving me the highest mark in his old course on the later Latin poets , although in my final examination I had ignored the questions and filled the bluebook with a comparison of Propertius and Coleridge .
He had written to me about a dinner he had had with the Benedictine monks at St. Anselm's Priory in Washington .
There had been reading at table , especially from two books , Pope Gregory The Great's account of St. Scholastica in his Dialogues and my own The World Of Washington Irving .
He said , `` Some have criticized your book as being neither literary criticism nor history .
Of course it was not meant to be .
Some have felt that Washington Irving comes out rather slimly , but let them look at the title of the book '' .
He felt as I felt about this best of all my books , that it was `` really tops '' .
Two or three times , C. C. Burlingham came to lunch with us in Weston , that wonderful man who lived to be more than a hundred years old and whose birthplace had been my Wall Street suburb .
His reading ranged from Agatha Christie to The Book Of Job and he had an insatiable interest in his fellow-creatures , while his letters were full of gossip about new politicians and old men of letters with whom he had been intimately thrown six decades before .
I could never forget the gaiety with which , when he was both blind and deaf , he let me lead him around his rooms to look at some of the pictures ; ;
and once when he came to see us in New York he walked away in a rainstorm , unwilling to hear of a taxi or even an umbrella , although he was at the time ninety years old .
There were several men of ninety or more whom I knew first or last , all of whom were still productive and most of whom knew one another as if they had naturally come together at the apex of their lives .
I never met John Dewey , whose style was a sort of verbal fog and who had written asking me to go to Mexico with him when he was investigating the cause of Trotsky ; ;
but I liked to think of him at ninety swimming and working at Key West long after Hemingway had moved to Cuba .
At Lee Simonson's house , I had dined with Edith Hamilton , the nonogenarian rationalist and the charming scholar who had a great popular success with The Greek Way .
Then there was Mark Howe and there was Henry Dwight Sedgwick , an accomplished man of letters who wrote in the spirit of Montaigne and produced in the end a formidable body of work .
I saw Sedgwick often before his death at ninety-five , -- he had remarried at the age of ninety , -- and he asked me , when once I returned from Rome , if I knew the Cavallinis in the church of St. Cecilia in Trastevere .
I had to confess that I had missed these frescoes , recently discovered , that he had studied in his eighties .
Sedgwick had chosen to follow the philosophy of Epicurus whom , with his followers , Dante put in hell ; ;
but he defended the doctrine in The Art Of Happiness , and what indeed could be said against the Epicurean virtues , health , frugality , privacy , culture and friendship ? ?
Of Mark Antony De Wolfe Howe the philosopher Whitehead said the Earth's first visitors to Mars should be persons likely to make a good impression , and when he was asked , `` Whom would you send '' ? ?
He replied , `` My first choice would be Mark Howe '' .
This friend of many years came once to visit us in the house at Weston .
Then I spoke at the ninetieth birthday party of W. E. Burghardt Du Bois , who embarked on a fictional trilogy at eighty-nine and who , with The Crisis , had created a Negro intelligentsia that had never existed in America before him .
As their interpreter and guide , he had broken with Tuskegee and become a spokesman of the coloured people of the world .
Mr. Burlingham , -- `` C.C.B. '' -- wrote to me once about an old friend of mine , S. K. Ratcliffe , whom I had first met in London in 1914 and who also came out for a week-end in Weston .
`` Did you ever know a man with greater zest for information ? ?
And his memory , like an elephant's , stored with precise knowledge of men and things and happenings '' .
His wife , Katie , `` as gay as a lark and as lively as a gazelle '' , -- she was then seventy-six , -- had `` a sense of humour that has been denied S.K. , but neither has any aesthetic perceptions .
People and books are enough for them '' .
S.K. was visiting C.C.B. and , not waiting for breakfast , he was off to the University Club , where he spent hours writing obituaries of living Americans for The Manchester Guardian or The Glasgow Herald .
Later , rising ninety , he was beset by publishers for the story of his life and miracles , as he put it , but , calling himself the Needy Knife-grinder , he had spent his time writing short articles and long letters and could not get even a small popular book done .
Then , all but blind , he said there was nothing in Back to Methuselah -- , -- `` G.B.S. ought to have known that '' , -- and `` I look at my bookshelves despairingly , knowing that I can have nothing more to do with them '' .
However , at eighty-five , he had still been busy writing articles , reviewing and speaking , and I had never before known an Englishman who had visited and lectured in three quarters of the United States .
Finally , colleges and clubs took the line that speakers from England were not wanted any longer , even speakers like S.K. , so unlike the novelists and poets who had patronized the Americans for many years .
With their facile generalizations about the United States , these mediocrities , as they often were , had been great successes .
While S.K. did not like Dylan Thomas , I liked his poems very much , but I made the mistake of telling Dylan Thomas so , whereupon he said to me , `` I suppose you think you know all about me '' .
I should have replied , `` I probably know something about the best part of you '' .
But I only thought of that in the middle of the night .
Many years later I went to see S.K. in England , where he was living at Whiteleaf , near Aylesbury , and he showed me beside his cottage there the remains of the road on which Boadicea is supposed to have travelled .
He was convinced that George Orwell's 1984 was nearly all wrong as it applied to England , which was `` driving forward into uncharted waters '' , with the danger of a new tyranny ahead .
`` But however we go , whatever our doom , it will not take the Orwellian shape '' .
With facts mainly in his mind , he was often acute in the matter of style , and he said , `` The young who have as yet nothing to say will try larks with initial letters and broken lines .
But put them before a situation which they are forced to depict '' , -- he was speaking of the Spanish civil war , -- `` and they have no hesitation ; ;
they merely do their best to make it real for others '' .
He looked at her as she spoke , then got up as she was speaking still , and , simply and wordlessly , walked out .
And that was the end .
Or nearly .
He went to the Hotel Mayflower and telegraphed Mencken .
Would he meet him in Baltimore in Drawing Room A , Car Three on the train leaving Washington at nine o'clock next morning ? ?
They would go to New York together , where parties would be piled on weariness and on misery .
But not for long .
Both Alfred Harcourt and Donald Brace had written him enthusiastic praise of Elmer Gantry ( any changes could be made in proof , which was already coming from the printer ) and they had ordered 140,000 copies -- the largest first printing of any book in history .
But none of this could soothe the exacerbated nerves .
On New Year's Eve , Alfred Harcourt drove him up the Hudson to Bill Brown's Training Camp , a well-known establishment for the speedy if temporary rehabilitation of drunkards who could no longer help themselves .
But , in departing , Lewis begged Breasted that there be no liquor in the apartment at the Grosvenor on his return , and he took with him the first thirty galleys of Elmer Gantry .
On January 4 , with the boys back at school and college , Mrs. Lewis wrote Harcourt to say that she was `` through , quite through '' .
`` This whole Washington venture was my last gesture , and it has failed .
Physically as well as mentally I have reached the limit of my endurance .
My last gift to him is complete silence until the book is out and the first heated discussion dies down .
For him to divorce God and wife simultaneously would be bad publicity .
I am really ill at the present moment , and I will go to some sort of a sanitarium to normalize myself '' .
And she withdrew then to Cromwell Hall , in Cromwell , Connecticut .
Harcourt replied : `` I do really hope you can achieve serenity in the course of time .
Of course I hope Hal can also , but those hopes are much more faint '' .
8
on January 8 , 1927 , he returned to the Grosvenor in high spirits , and looking fit .
He had been , he wrote Mencken at once , `` in the country '' , a euphemism for an experience that had not greatly changed him .
Charles Breasted remembers that , before unpacking his bag , he telephoned his bootlegger with a generous order , and almost at once `` the familiar procession of people began milling through our living room at any hour between two P.M. and three A.M. '' .
They were strays of every kind -- university students and journalists , Village hangers-on and barflies , taxi drivers and editors and unknown poets , as well as friends like Elinor Wylie and William Rose Benet , the Van Dorens and Nathan , Rebecca West and Hugh Walpole and Osbert Sitwell , Laurence Stallings , Lewis Browne , William Seabrook , Arthur Hopkins , the Woodwards .
When he came home from his office at the end of the afternoon , Breasted never knew what gathering he should expect to find , but there almost always was one .
He did not neglect his wife in Cromwell Hall , but telephoned her and wrote her with assurances of his continuing interest and of his wish to `` stand behind '' her in their separation and of his hope that there would be no bitterness between them .
She was occupying herself in an attempt to write an article about the variety of houses that they had rented abroad .
He was of unsettled mind as to whether he should go abroad when the Gantry galleys were finished .
For a time , urging Breasted to give up his public relations work and take up writing instead , he hoped to persuade him to become his assistant in research for the labor novel ; ;
if Breasted agreed , they would get a car and tour the country , visiting every kind of industrial center .
When Breasted insisted that this was impossible for him , Lewis decided to go abroad .
He telephoned L. M. Birkhead and asked him and his wife to come to Europe as his guests , but Birkhead declined on the grounds that one of them must be in the United States when Elmer Gantry was published .
Lewis was spending his mornings , with the help of two secretaries , on the galleys of that long novel , making considerable revisions , and the combination of hard work and hard frivolity exhausted him once more , so that he was compelled to spend three days in the Harbor Sanatorium in the last week of January .
Before he made that retreat , he telephoned Earl Blackman in Kansas City and asked him to come to Europe with him .
Blackman was to be in New York by February 2 , because they were sailing at 12:01 next morning .
Lewis told him what clothes he should bring along , and enjoined him not to buy anything that he did not already own , they would do that in New York .
Blackman arrived a day or two early , and Lewis took him to a department store immediately and outfitted him , luggage and all , and then he took him to a party at the Woodwards that went on until four in the morning .
On the evening that they were to sail , Lewis himself gave a party , but he was too indisposed to appear at it .
Woodward took occasion to warn Blackman about Lewis's drinking and urged him to `` try to keep him sober '' .
After a dinner party for which she had come down to New York , Mrs. Lewis and Casanova arrived to see them off , and Elinor Wylie made tart observations that indicated that Lewis had been less discreet than he had promised to be about the real nature of their separation .
Nevertheless , Mrs. Lewis was still solicitous of his condition : let him do as he wished , let him sleep with chambermaids if he must , but , she begged Blackman , try to keep him from drinking a great deal and bring him back in good health .
As they stood at the first-class rail , waving down to his wife and Casanova below , Lewis said , `` Earl , there is Gracie's future husband '' .
And when questioned by ship's reporters about the separation , she said , `` I adore him , and he adores me '' .
Blackman had brought news from Kansas City .
Before his departure , a group of his friends , the Reverend Stidger among them , had given him a luncheon , and Stidger had seen advance sheets of Elmer Gantry .
He was outraged by the book and announced that he had discovered fifty technical errors in its account of church practices .
L. M. Birkhead challenged him to name one and he was silent .
But his rancor did not cease , and presently , on March 13 , when he preached a sermon on the text , `` And Ben-hadad Was Drunk '' , he told his congregation how disappointed he was in Mr. Lewis , how he regretted having had him in his house , and how he should have been warned by the fact that the novelist was drunk all the time that he was working on the book .
But that sermon , like those of hundreds of other ministers , was yet to be delivered .
In London Lewis took the usual suite in Bury Street .
To the newspapers he talked about his unquiet life , about his wish to be a newspaperman once more , about the prevalence of American slang in British speech , about the loquacity of the English and the impossibility of finding quiet in a railway carriage , about his plans to wander for two years `` unless stopped and made to write another book '' .
The Manchester Guardian wondered how anyone in a railway carriage would have an opportunity to talk to Mr. Lewis , since it was well known that Mr. Lewis always did all of the talking .
His English friends , it said , had gone into training to keep up with him vocally and with his `` allegro movements around the luncheon table '' .
The New York Times editorialist wondered just who would stop Mr. Lewis and make him write a book .
Lewis's remarks about his marriage were suggestive enough to induce American reporters to invade the offices of Harcourt , Brace & Company for information , to pursue Mrs. Lewis to Cromwell Hall , and , after she had returned to New York , to ferret her out at the Stanhope on upper Fifth Avenue where she had taken an apartment .
There , to the Evening Post , she emphatically denied the divorce rumors and explained that she had stayed behind because of the schooling of their son , which henceforth would be strictly American .
These rumors of permanent separation started up a whole crop of stories about her .
One had it that a friend , protesting her snobbery , said , `` But , Gracie , you are an American , aren't you '' ? ?
And she replied , `` I was born in America , but I was conceived in Vienna '' .
Lewis himself furthered these tales .
He is said to have reported that once , when she went to a hospital to call on a friend after a serious operation , and the friend protested that it had been `` nothing '' , she replied , `` Well , it was your healthy American peasant blood that pulled you through '' .
With these and similar tales he was entertaining his English friends , all of whom he was seeing when he was not showing Blackman the sights of London and its environs .
At once upon his arrival , he telephoned Lady Sybil Colefax who invited them to tea , and then Lewis decided to give a party as a quick way of rounding up his friends .
He invited Lady Sybil , Lord Thomson , Bechhofer Roberts , and a half dozen others .
It was a dinner party , Lewis had been drinking during the afternoon , and long before the party really got under way , he was quite drunk , with the result that the party broke up even before dinner was over .
Lewis , at the head of the table , would leap up and move around behind the chairs of his guests making remarks that , when not highly offensive , were at least highly inappropriate , and then presently he collapsed and was put to bed .
When Blackman emerged from the bedroom , everyone was gone except the tolerant Lord Thomson , who stayed and chatted with him for half an hour , and then Blackman lay awake most of that night , despairing of what he must expect on the Continent .
Finally , at dawn , he fell asleep , and when he awoke and came into the living room , he found Lewis in his pajamas before the fire , smoking a cigarette .
Blackman said that he wanted to apologize for not having prevented Lewis from making that horrible spectacle of himself , that he should have seized him by the neck at once and forcibly hauled him into his bedroom .
Lewis warned him never to lay a hand on him , and then Blackman asked for his fare back to the United States .
Lewis looked at him and began to cry , and then , saying that he was going to make a promise , he asked Blackman to call the porter and to tell him to take out all the liquor that he did not want .
`` And from now on , for the rest of this trip , I will only drink what you agree that I should drink '' .
Blackman called the porter and had him remove everything but one bottle of brandy , and after that they would have a cocktail or two before dinner , or , on one of their walking trips , beer , or , in France and Italy , wine in moderation .
Lewis gave him a guidebook tour of London and , motoring and walking , took him to Stratford , but the London stay was for only ten days , and on the twentieth they took the train for Southampton , where they spent the night for an early morning Channel crossing .
Near Southampton , in a considerable establishment , lived Homer Vachell , a well-known pulp writer , and his brother , Horace -- both friends of Lewis's .
He suggested that they call on these brothers , who received them pleasantly .
Then they returned to their hotel and got ready for bed .
It was late , and Blackman was ready to go to sleep , but Lewis was not .
He said , `` We had a good time tonight , didn't we , Earl '' ? ?
Earl agreed , and Lewis said that it would have been very different if his wife had been with him .
Then he kept Blackman awake for more than an hour while he did an imaginary dialogue between his wife and himself in which , discussing the evening , he was continually berated .
He began the dialogue by having his wife announce that one does not invade people's homes without warning them that one is coming , and went on from that with the entire catalogue of his social gaucheries .
From 1613 on , if the lists exist , they contain between twenty to thirty names .
As the total number of incepting bachelors in 1629 was , according to Masson ( Life , 1:218 ) and n , two hundred fifty-nine , the twenty-four names listed in the ordo senioritatis for that year constitute slightly less than one tenth of the total number of bachelors who then incepted .
There were four from St. John's and four from Christ's , three from Pembroke , and two from each of the colleges , Jesus , Peterhouse , Queens' , and Trinity , with Caius , Clare , King's , Magdalene , and Sidney supplying one each in the ordo senioritatis .
The list was headed by ( Henry ) Hutton of St. John's who was matriculated from St. John's at Easter , 1625 .
He became a fellow of Jesus in 1629 , proceeded M.A. from Jesus in 1632 , and was proctor in 1639-40 .
The second name was ( Edward ) Kempe , matriculated from Queens' College at Easter , 1625 .
He proceeded M.A. in 1632 , and B.D. in 1639 , being made fellow in 1632 .
He was ordained deacon 16 June and priest 22 December 1633 .
The third name was ( John ) Ravencroft , who was admitted to the Inner Temple in November 1631 .
The fourth name was ( John ) Milton of Christ's College , followed by ( Richard ) Manningham of Peterhouse , who matriculated 16 October 1624 .
Venn gave his B.A. as 1624 , a mistake for 1629 .
Manningham also proceeded M.A. in 1632 and became a fellow of his college in that year .
( John ) Boutflower of Christ's was twelfth in the list , coming from Perse School under Mr. Lovering as pensioner 20 April 1625 under Mr. Alsop .
The fourteenth name was ( Richard ) Buckenham , written Buckman , admitted to Christ's College under Scott 2 July 1625 .
The fifteenth name was ( Thomas ) Baldwin , admitted to Christ's 4 March 1625 under Alsop .
Christ's College was well represented that year in the ordo , and the name highest on the list from that college was Milton's , fourth in the entire university .
Small wonder that Milton later boasted of how well his work had been received there , since he attained a rank in the order of commencing bachelors higher than that of any other inceptor from Christ's of that year .
It is not possible to reconstruct fully the arrangements whereby these honors lists were then made up or even how the names that they contained assumed the order in which we find them .
The process usually began with a tutor boasting about a boy , as Chappell had boasted about Lightfoot , to the higher officers of the college and university .
Then the various officers of the college might take up the case .
It would , however , reach the proctors and other officers in charge of the public-school performances of the incepting bachelors , and the place that any individual obtained in the lists depended greatly on how he comported himself in the public schools during his acts therein as he was incepting .
Of course the higher officials could add or place a name on the list wherever they wished .
Milton's name being fourth is neither too high nor too low to be assigned to the arbitrary action of vice-chancellor , proctor , master , or other mighty hand .
He evidently earned the place assigned him .
Recapitulation of Milton's undergraduate career
Looking back from the spring of 1629 over the four years of Milton's undergraduate days , certain phases of his college career stand out as of permanent consequence to him and hence to us .
Of course the principal factor in the whole experience was the kind of education he received .
It differed from what an undergraduate receives today from any American college or university mainly in the certainty of what he was forced to learn compared with the loose and widely scattered information obtained today by most of our undergraduates .
Milton was required to absorb and display an intensive and accurate knowledge of Latin grammar , logic-rhetoric , ethics , physics or natural philosophy , metaphysics , and Latin , Greek , and Hebrew .
He had also sampled various special fields of learning , being unable to miss some study of divinity , Justinian ( law ) , and Galen ( medicine ) .
Above all , he had learned to write formal Latin prose and verse to a remarkable degree of artistry .
He had learned to dispute devastatingly , both formally and informally in Latin , and according to the rules on any topic , pro or con , drawn from almost any subject , more especially from Aristotle's works .
He could produce carefully constructed orations , set and formal speeches , artfully and prayerfully made by writing and rewriting with all the aid his tutor and others could provide , and then delivered verbatim from memory .
He had also learned to dispute extempore remarkably well , the main evidence for which of course is the presence of his name in the honors list of 1628/29 .
He also displayed the ability to write Latin verse on almost any topic of dispute , the verses , of course , to be delivered from memory .
Then we have surviving at least one instance of a poem prepared for another , in Naturam non Pati Senium , and perhaps also the De Idea Platonica .
But his greatest achievement , in his own eyes and in the eyes of his colleagues and teachers , was his amazing ability to produce literary Latin pieces , and he was often called on to do so .
These were his public academic activities , domi forisque , in the college and in the university .
And his performances attracted much attention , as the frequency of his surviving pieces in any calendar that may be set up for his undergraduate activities testifies .
His other activities are not so easily recovered .
His statements about sports and exercises of a physical nature are suggestive , but inconclusive .
His later boastings of his skill with the small sword are indicative of much time and practice devoted to the use of that weapon .
Venn and others have dealt with sports and pastimes at Cambridge in Milton's day with not very specific results .
Milton himself , uncommunicative as he is about his lesser and nonliterary activities , at least gives us some evidence that he was a great walker , under any and all conditions .
His early poems and some of his prose prolusions speak of wanderings in the city and the neighboring country that may be extended to Cambridge and its surrounding countryside .
The town itself and the `` reedy Cam '' he often visited , as did all in the university .
The churches , the taverns , and the various other places of the town must have known his figure well as he roved to and about them .
The tiny hamlet of Chesterton to the north , with the fens and marshes lying on down the Ouse River , may have attracted him often , as it did many other youths of the time .
The Gog Magog Hills to the southeast afforded him and all other students a vantage point from which to view the town and university of their dwelling .
The country about Cambridge is flat and not particularly spectacular in its scenery , though it offers easy going to the foot traveler .
Ball games , especially football , required some attention , and other organized sports may have attracted him as participant or spectator .
He smoked , as did everybody , and imbibed the various alcoholic beverages of that day , although his protestations while at Cambridge and after that he was no drunkard point to reasonable abstinence from the wild drinking bouts of some of the undergraduates and , we must add , of some of their elders including many of the regents or teachers .
What manner of person does Milton appear to have been when as an undergraduate he resided at Christ's College ? ?
He was then a slightly built young man of pleasing appearance , medium stature , and handsome face .
Graceful as his fencing and dancing lessons had taught him to be in addition to the natural grace of his slight , wiry frame , he cut enough of a figure to have evoked a nickname in the college , to which he himself referred in Prolusion 6 : :
A quibusdam , , audivi nuper Domina .
That is , if we can trust that most specious of prolusions , packed as it is with wit and persiflage .
The Domina sounds real enough , if we could only trust the conditions under which we learn of its use ; ;
but anyone who would put much trust in any phase of Prolusion 6 , except its illusive allusiveness deserves whatever fate may be meted out to him by virtue of the egregiously stilted banter .
In short , the traditional epithet for Milton of ' Lady of Christ's ' , while eminently fitting , rests only on this baffling passage in the midst of the most treacherous piece of writing Milton left us .
Aubrey's mention of it ( 2:67 , and Bodleian MS Aubr. 8 , F. 63 ) comes from this prolusion , through Christopher Milton or Edward Phillips .
It is not a question of truth or falsity ; ;
the prolusion in which the autobiographic statement about the epithet occurs is such a mass of intentionally buried allusions that almost nothing in it can be accepted as true -- or discarded as false .
The entire exercise , Latin and English , is most suggestive of the kind of person Milton had become at Christ's during his undergraduate career ; ;
the mere fact that he was selected , though as a substitute , to act as interlocutor or moderator for it , or perhaps we should say with Buck as ' father of the act ' , is in itself a difficult phase of his development to grasp .
Milton was to act as the archfool , the supreme wit , the lightly bantering pater , Pater Liber , who could at once trip lightly over that which deserved such treatment , or could at will annihilate the common enemies of the college gathering , and with words alone .
From an exercise involving merely raucous , rough-and-tumble comedy , in his hands the performance turned into a revel of wit and word play , indecent at times , but always learned , pointed , and carefully aimed at some individuals present , and at the whole assembly .
To do this successfully required great skill and a special talent for both solemn and ribald raillery , a talent not bestowed on many persons , but one with which Milton was marked as being endowed and in which , at least in this performance , he obviously reveled .
It may be thought unfortunate that he was called on entirely by accident to perform , if again we may trust the opening of the oratio , for it marks the beginning for us of his use of his peculiar form of witty word play that even in this Latin banter has in it the unmistakable element of viciousness and an almost sadistic delight in verbally tormenting an adversary .
But the real beginnings of this development in him go back to the opposing of grammar school , and probably if it had not been this occasion and these Latin lines it would have been some others , such as the first prolusion , that set off this streak in him of unbridled and scathing verbal attack on an enemy .
All western Europe would hear and listen to him in this same vein about the middle of the century .
But these prolusions that we have surviving from the Christ's College days are only one phase of his existence then .
Perhaps his most important private activity was the combination of reading , discussion with a few -- if we can trust his writings to Diodati and the younger Gill , very few -- congenial companions .
Lines 23-36 of Lycidas later point to a friendship with Edward King , who entered Christ's College 9 June 1626 .
No other names among the young men in residence at the time seem to have been even suggested by Milton as those of persons with whom he in any way consorted .
But that scarcely means that he was the aloof , forbidding type of student who shared few if any activities with his fellows , the banter of the surviving prolusions providing enough evidence to deny this .
Apparently he was not a participant in the college or university theatricals , which he once attacked as utterly unworthy performances ( see Apology , 3:300 ) ; ;
but even in that famous passage , Milton was aiming not at the theatricals as such but at their performance by ' persons either enter'd , or presently to enter into the ministry .
The fact that he nowhere mentioned theatrical performances as part of the activities of the boys later in his hypothetical academy ( 1644 ) should not be taken too seriously as evidence that he desired them to eschew such performances .
Perhaps , in that short piece or letter written to Hartlib in which he sketched his scheme for educating young men , he merely overlooked that phase of their exercises .
Writers of this class of science fiction have clearly in mind the assumptions that man can master the principles of this cause-and-effect universe and that such mastery will necessarily better the human lot .
On the other hand , the bright vision of the future has been directly stated in science fiction concerned with projecting ideal societies -- science fiction , of course , is related , if sometimes distantly , to that utopian literature optimistic about science , literature whose period of greatest vigor in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries produced Edward Bellamy's Looking Backward and H. G. Wells's A Modern Utopia .
In Arthur Clarke's Childhood's End ( 1953 ) , though written after the present flood of dystopias began , we can see the bright vision of science fiction clearly defined .
Childhood's End -- apparently indebted to Kurd Lasswitz's Utopian romance , Auf Zwei Planeten ( 1897 ) , and also to Wells's Histories Of The Future , especially , The World Set Free ( 1914 ) and The Shape Of Things To Come ( 1933 ) -- describes the bloodless conquest of earth by the Overlords , vastly superior creatures who come to our world in order to prepare the human race for its next stage of development , an eventual merging with the composite mind of the universe .
Arriving just in time to stop men from turning their planet into a radioactive wasteland , the Overlords unite earth into one world in which justice , order , and benevolence prevail and ignorance , poverty , and fear have ceased to exist .
Under their rule , earth becomes a technological utopia .
Both abolition of war and new techniques of production , particularly robot factories , greatly increase the world's wealth , a situation described in the following passage , which has the true utopian ring : `` Everything was so cheap that the necessities of life were free , provided as a public service by the community , as roads , water , street lighting and drainage had once been .
A man could travel anywhere he pleased , eat whatever he fancied -- without handing over any money '' .
With destructive tensions and pressures removed men have the vigor and energy to construct a new human life -- rebuilding entire cities , expanding facilities for entertainment , providing unlimited opportunities for education -- indeed , for the first time giving everyone the chance to employ his talents to the fullest .
Mankind , as a result , attains previously undreamed of levels of civilization and culture , a golden age which the Overlords , a very evident symbol of science , have helped produce by introducing reason and the scientific method into human activities .
Thus science is the savior of mankind , and in this respect Childhood's End only blueprints in greater detail the vision of the future which , though not always so directly stated , has nevertheless been present in the minds of most science-fiction writers .
Considering then the optimism which has permeated science fiction for so long , what is really remarkable is that during the last twelve years many science-fiction writers have turned about and attacked their own cherished vision of the future , have attacked the Childhood's End kind of faith that science and technology will inevitably better the human condition .
And they have done this on a very large scale , with a veritable flood of novels and stories which are either dystopias or narratives of adventure with dystopian elements .
Because of the means of publication -- science-fiction magazines and cheap paperbacks -- and because dystopian science fiction is still appearing in quantity the full range and extent of this phenomenon can hardly be known , though one fact is evident : the science-fiction imagination has been immensely fertile in its extrapolations .
Among the dystopias , for example , Isaac Asimov's The Caves Of Steel ( 1954 ) portrays the deadly effects on human life of the super-city of the future ; ;
James Blish's A Case Of Conscience ( 1958 ) describes a world hiding from its own weapons of destruction in underground shelters ; ;
Ray Bradbury's Fahrenheit 451 ( 1954 ) presents a book-burning society in which wall television and hearing-aid radios enslave men's minds ; ;
Walter M. Miller , Jr.'s , A Canticle For Leibowitz ( 1959 ) finds men , after the great atomic disaster , stumbling back to their previous level of civilization and another catastrophe ; ;
Frederick Pohl's `` The Midas Touch '' ( 1954 ) predicts an economy of abundance which , in order to remain prosperous , must set its robots to consuming surplus production ; ;
Clifford D. Simak's `` How-2 '' ( 1954 ) tells of a future when robots have taken over , leaving men nothing to do ; ;
and Robert Sheckley's The Status Civilization ( 1960 ) describes a world which , frightened by the powers of destruction science has given it , becomes static and conformist .
A more complete list would also include Bradbury's `` The Pedestrian '' ( 1951 ) , Philip K. Dick's Solar Lottery ( 1955 ) , David Karp's One ( 1953 ) , Wilson Tucker's The Long Loud Silence ( 1952 ) , Jack Vance's To Live Forever ( 1956 ) , Gore Vidal's Messiah ( 1954 ) , and Bernard Wolfe's Limbo ( 1952 ) , as well as the three perhaps most outstanding dystopias , Frederik Pohl and C. M. Kornbluth's The Space Merchants ( 1953 ) , Kurt Vonnegut's Player Piano ( 1952 ) , and John Wyndham's Re-Birth ( 1953 ) , works which we will later examine in detail .
The novels and stories like Pohl's Drunkard's Walk ( 1960 ) , with the focus on adventure and with the dystopian elements only a dim background -- in this case an uneasy , overpopulated world in which the mass of people do uninteresting routine jobs while a carefully selected , university-trained elite runs everything -- are in all likelihood as numerous as dystopias .
There is , of course , nothing new about dystopias , for they belong to a literary tradition which , including also the closely related satiric utopias , stretches from at least as far back as the eighteenth century and Swift's Gulliver's Travels to the twentieth century and Zamiatin's We , Capek's War With The Newts , Huxley's Brave New World , E. M. Forster's `` The Machine Stops '' , C. S. Lewis's That Hideous Strength , and Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four , and which in science fiction is represented before the present deluge as early as Wells's trilogy , The Time Machine , `` A Story Of The Days To Come '' , and When The Sleeper Wakes , and as recently as Jack Williamson's `` With Folded Hands '' ( 1947 ) , the classic story of men replaced by their own robots .
What makes the current phenomenon unique is that so many science-fiction writers have reversed a trend and turned to writing works critical of the impact of science and technology on human life .
Since the great flood of these dystopias has appeared only in the last twelve years , it seems fairly reasonable to assume that the chief impetus was the 1949 publication of Nineteen Eighty-Four , an assumption which is supported by the frequent echoes of such details as Room 101 , along with education by conditioning from Brave New World , a book to which science-fiction writers may well have returned with new interest after reading the more powerful Orwell dystopia .
Not all recent science fiction , however , is dystopian , for the optimistic strain is still very much alive in Mission Of Gravity and Childhood's End , as we have seen , as well as in many other recent popular novels and stories like Fred Hoyle's The Black Cloud ( 1957 ) ; ;
and among works of dystopian science fiction , not all provide intelligent criticism and very few have much merit as literature -- but then real quality has always been scarce in science fiction .
In addition , there are many areas of the human situation besides the impact of science and technology which are examined , for science-fiction dystopias often extrapolate political , social , economic tendencies only indirectly related to science and technology .
Nevertheless , with all these qualifications and exceptions , the current dystopian phenomenon remains impressive for its criticism that science and technology , instead of bringing utopia , may well enslave , dehumanize , and even destroy men .
How effectively these warnings can be presented is seen in Pohl and Kornbluth's The Space Merchants , Vonnegut's Player Piano and Wyndham's Re-Birth .
Easily the best known of these three novels is The Space Merchants , a good example of a science-fiction dystopia which extrapolates much more than the impact of science on human life , though its most important warning is in this area , namely as to the use to which discoveries in the behavioral sciences may be put .
The novel , which is not merely dystopian but also brilliantly satiric , describes a future America where one-sixteenth of the population , the men who run advertising agencies and big corporations , control the rest of the people , the submerged fifteen-sixteenths who are the workers and consumers , with the government being no more than `` a clearing house for pressures '' .
Like ours , the economy of the space merchants must constantly expand in order to survive , and , like ours , it is based on the principle of `` ever increasing everybody's work and profits in the circle of consumption '' .
The consequences , of course , have been dreadful : reckless expansion has led to overpopulation , pollution of the earth and depletion of its natural resources .
For example , even the most successful executive lives in a two-room apartment while ordinary people rent space in the stairwells of office buildings in which to sleep at night ; ;
soyaburgers have replaced meat , and wood has become so precious that it is saved for expensive jewelry ; ;
and the atmosphere is so befouled that no one dares walk in the open without respirators or soot plugs .
While The Space Merchants indicates , as Kingsley Amis has correctly observed , some of the `` impending consequences of the growth of industrial and commercial power '' and satirizes `` existing habits in the advertising profession '' , its warning and analysis penetrate much deeper .
What is wrong with advertising is not only that it is an `` outrage , an assault on people's mental privacy '' or that it is a major cause for a wasteful economy of abundance or that it contains a coercive tendency ( which is closer to the point ) .
Rather what Kornbluth and Pohl are really doing is warning against the dangers inherent in perfecting `` a science of man and his motives '' .
The Space Merchants , like such humanist documents as Joseph Wood Krutch's The Measure Of Man and C. S. Lewis's The Abolition Of Man , considers what may result from the scientific study of human nature .
If man is actually the product of his environment and if science can discover the laws of human nature and the ways in which environment determines what people do , then someone -- a someone probably standing outside traditional systems of values -- can turn around and develop completely efficient means for controlling people .
Thus we will have a society consisting of the planners or conditioners , and the controlled .
And this , of course , is exactly what Madison Avenue has been accused of doing albeit in a primitive way , with its `` hidden persuaders '' and what the space merchants accomplish with much greater sophistication and precision .
Pohl and Kornbluth's ad men have long since thrown out appeals to reason and developed techniques of advertising which tie in with `` every basic trauma and neurosis in American life '' , which work on the libido of consumers , which are linked to the `` great prime motivations of the human spirit '' .
As the hero , Mitchell Courtenay , explains before his conversion , the job of advertising is `` to convince people without letting them know that they're being convinced '' .
And to do this requires first of all the kind of information about people which is provided by the scientists in industrial anthropology and consumer research , who , for example , tell Courtenay that three days is the `` optimum priming period for a closed social circuit to be triggered with a catalytic cue-phrase '' -- which means that an effective propaganda technique is to send an idea into circulation and then three days later reinforce or undermine it .
And the second requirement for convincing people without their knowledge is artistic talent to prepare the words and pictures which persuade by using the principles which the scientists have discovered .
Thus the copywriter in the world of the space merchants is the person who in earlier ages might have been a lyric poet , the person `` capable of putting together words that stir and move and sing '' .
As Courtenay explains , `` Here in this profession we reach into the souls of men and women .
And we do it by taking talent -- and redirecting it '' .
Now the basic question to be asked in this situation is what motivates the manipulators , that is , what are their values ? ?
-- since , as Courtenay says , `` Nobody should play with lives the way we do unless he's motivated by the highest ideals '' .
But the only ideal he can think of is `` Sales '' ! !
Indeed , again and again , the space merchants confirm the prediction of the humanists that the conditioners and behavioral scientists , once they have seen through human nature , will have nothing except their impulses and desires to guide them .
We often say of a person that he `` looks young for his age '' or `` old for his age '' .
Yet even in the more extreme of such cases we seldom go very far astray in guessing what his age actually is .
And this means , I suppose , that almost invariably age reveals itself by easily recognizable signs engraved on both the body and the mind .
`` Young for his age '' means only the presence of some minor characteristic not quite usual .
Stigmata quite sufficient for diagnosis are nevertheless there .
An assumption of youth , or the presence of a few youthful characteristics , deceives no more successfully than rouge or dyed hair .
`` Looking young for your age '' means `` for your age '' and it means no more .
A mind expressing itself in words may reveal itself a little less obviously as old or young .
Its surface loses its bloom and submits to its wrinkles in ways less immediately obvious than the body does .
Youth may be , and often is , skeptical , cynical or despairing ; ;
age may be idealistic , believing and much given to professions of optimism .
But there is , nevertheless , always a subtle difference in the way in which supposedly similar opinions are held .
The pessimism of the young is defiant , anxious to confess or even exaggerate its ostensible gloom , and so exuberant as to reveal the fact that it regards its ability to face up to the awful truth as more than enough to compensate for the awfulness of that truth .
Similarly the optimism of age protests too much .
If it proclaims that the best is yet to be , it always arouses , at least in the young , either a suspicious question or perhaps the exclamation of the Negro youth who saw on a tombstone the inscription , `` I am not dead but sleeping '' .
`` Boy , you ain't fooling nobody but yourself '' .
We may say of some unfortunates that they were never young .
We cannot truthfully say of anyone who has succeeded in entering deep into his sixties that he was never old .
Those famous lines of the Greek Anthology with which a fading beauty dedicates her mirror at the shrine of a goddess reveal a wise attitude : `` Venus , take my votive glass , Since I am not what I was , What from this day I shall be , Venus , let me never see '' .
No good can come of contemplating the sad , inevitable fact that once youth has passed `` a worse and worse time still succeeds the former '' .
But there are at least two reasons for contemplating one's mind in even a cracked mirror .
One is that there sometimes are real although inadequate compensations in growing old .
Serenity , if one is fortunate enough to achieve it , is not so good as joy , but it is something .
Even to be `` from hope and fear set free '' is at least better than to have lost the first without having got rid of the second .
The other reason ( and the one with which I am here concerned ) is that one thus becomes inclined to inquire of any opinion , or change of opinion , whether it represents the wisdom of experience or is only the result of the difference between youth and age which is as inevitable as the all too obvious physical differences .
One may be exasperatingly aware that if the answer is favorable it will be judged such only by those of one's own age .
But at least the question has been raised .
Many readers of this department no doubt discount certain of my opinions for the simple reason that they can guess pretty accurately , even if they have never actually been told , what my age is .
At least I should like them to know that I know these discounts are being made .
Let me then ( and in public ) glance into the mirror .
I have known some men and women who said that the selves they are told about or even remember seem utter strangers to them now ; ;
that their remote past is as discontinuous with their present selves , as lacking in any conscious likeness to their mature personality , as the self of a butterfly may be imagined discontinuous with that of the caterpillar it once was .
For my part I find it difficult to conceive such a state of affairs .
I have changed and I have reversed opinions ; ;
but I am so aware of an uninterrupted continuity of the persona or ego that I see only as absurd the tendency of some psychologists from Heraclitus to Pirandello and Proust to regard consciousness as no more than a flux amid which nothing remains unchanged .
So far as I am concerned , the child is unmistakably father to the man , despite the obvious fact that child and father differ greatly -- sometimes for the better and sometimes for the worse .
Fundamental values , temperament and the way in which one approaches a conviction change less , of course , than specific opinions .
That fact is very clearly illustrated in the case of the many present-day intellectuals who were Communists or near-Communists in their youth and are now so extremely conservative ( or reactionary , as many would say ) that they can define no important political conviction that does not seem so far from even a centrist position as to make the distinction between Mr. Nixon and Mr. Khrushchev for them hardly worth noting .
But in ways more fundamental than specific political opinions they are still what they always were : passionate , sure without a shadow of doubt of whatever it is that they are sure of , capable of seeing black and white only and , therefore , committed to the logical extreme of whatever it is they are temporarily committed to .
To those of my readers who find many of my opinions morally , or politically , or sociologically antiquated ( and I have reason to know that there are some such ) , I would like to say what I have already hinted , namely , that some of my opinions may indeed be subject to some discount on the simple ground that I am no longer young and therefore incapable of being youthful of mind .
But I will also remind them that I have always been inclined to skepticism , to a kind of Laodicean lack of commitment so far as public affairs are concerned ; ;
so that , although not as eager as I once was to be disapproved of , I can still resist prevailing opinions .
At about the age of twelve I became a Spencerian liberal , and I have always considered myself a liberal of some kind even though the definition has changed repeatedly since Spencer became a reactionary .
Several times in my youth I voted the Socialist ticket , but less because I was Socialist than because I was not either a Republican or a Democrat , and I voted for Franklin Roosevelt every time he was a candidate .
Yet during the years when I was on the staff of The Nation , I tried to the limit the patience of the editors on almost every occasion when I was permitted to write an editorial having a bearing on a political or social question .
Never once during the trying thirties did I come so close to succumbing to the private climate of opinion as to grant Russian communism even that most weasel-worded of encomiums `` an interesting experiment '' .
There are few things of which I am prouder than of that unblemished record .
Many of my friends at the time thought that I had received a well-deserved condemnation when Lincoln Steffens denounced me in a review of one of my books as a perfect example of the obsolete man who could understand and sympathize only with the dead past .
But he , as I can now retort , was the man who could see so short a distance ahead that after a visit to Russia he gave voice to the famous exclamation : `` I have seen the future and it works '' .
The favorite excuse of those who have now recanted their approval of communism is that they did not know how things would develop .
With this excuse I have never been much impressed .
There was , it seems to me , enough in the openly declared principles and intentions of Russian leaders to alienate honorable men without their having to wait to see how it would turn out .
Once many years ago I sat at dinner next to Arthur Train , and the subject of The Nation came up .
He asked me suddenly , `` What are your political opinions '' ? ?
`` Well '' , I replied , `` some of my colleagues on the paper regard me as a rank reactionary '' .
After a moment's thought he replied , `` That still leaves you a lot of latitude '' .
And I suppose it did .
I never have been , and am not now , any kind of utopian .
When I first came across Samuel Johnson's pronouncement , `` the remedy for the ills of life is palliative rather than radical '' , it seemed to me to sum up the profoundest of political and social truths .
It will probably explain more of my attitudes toward society than any other phrase or principle could .
Why did I choose to fill these pages in this particular issue with this mixture of rather tenuous reflections and autobiography ? ?
The reason is , I think , my awareness that my remarks last quarter on pacifism may well have served to confirm the opinion of some that my tendency to skepticism and dissent gets us nowhere , and that I am simply too old to hope .
I would , however , like to suggest that , wrong though I may be , the tendency to see dilemmas rather than solutions is one of which I have been a victim ever since I can remember , and therefore not merely a senile phenomenon .
I know that one must act .
But one need not always be sure that the action is either wise or conclusive .
Apropos of what some would call cynicism , I remember an anecdote the source of which I forget .
It concerns a small-town minister who staged an impressive object lesson by confining a lion and a lamb together in the same cage outside his church door .
Not only his parishioners , but the whole town and , ultimately , the whole county were enormously impressed by this object lesson .
One day he was visited by a delegation of would-be imitators who wanted to know his secret .
`` How on earth do you manage it ? ?
What is the trick '' ? ?
`` Why '' , he replied , `` it is perfectly simple ; ;
there is no trick involved .
All you have to do is put in a fresh lamb from time to time '' .
Cynical ? ?
Blasphemous ? ?
Not really , it seems to me .
The promise that the lion and the lamb will lie down together was given in the future tense .
It is not something that can be expected to happen now .
Without really changing the general subject , I take this opportunity to confess that I am troubled by doubts , not only about pacifism , but also when asked to join in the protest against a law that most of those who consider themselves humane and liberal seem to regard as obviously barbarous ; ;
namely , the law that prescribes the death penalty for murder when there seem to be no extenuating circumstances .
It is not that I am unaware of the force of their strongest contention .
Life , they say , should be regarded as sacred and , therefore , as something that neither an individual nor his society has a right to take away .
In fact I cannot imagine myself condemning a man to the noose or the electric chair if I had to take , as an individual , the responsibility for his death .
Just as I know I would make a bad soldier even though I cannot sincerely call myself a pacifist , so too I would not be either a hangman by profession or , if I could avoid it , even a member of a hanging jury .
Despite these facts the question `` : :
Should no murderer ever be executed '' ? ?
Seems to me to create a dilemma not to be satisfactorily disposed of by a simple negative answer .
Punishment of the wrongdoer , so liberals are inclined to say , can have only three possible justifications : revenge , reformation or deterrent example .
For here if anywhere in contemporary literature is a major effort to counterbalance Existentialism and restore some of its former lustre to the tarnished image of the species Man , or , as Malraux himself puts it , `` to make men conscious of the grandeur they ignore in themselves '' .
1 ,
Andre Malraux's The Walnut Trees Of Altenburg was written in the early years of the second World War , during a period of enforced leisure when he was taken prisoner by the Germans after the fall of France .
The manuscript , presumably after being smuggled out of the country , was published in Switzerland in 1943 .
The work as it stands is not the entire book that Malraux wrote at that time -- it is only the first section of a three-part novel called La Lutte avec l'Ange ; ;
and this first section was somehow preserved ( there are always these annoying little mysteries about the actual facts of Malraux's life ) when the Gestapo destroyed the rest .
If we are to believe the list of titles printed in Malraux's latest book , La Metamorphose Des Dieux , Vol. 1 ( ( 1957 ) , he is still engaged in writing a large novel under his original title .
But as he remarks in his preface to The Walnut Trees , `` a novel can hardly ever be rewritten '' , and `` when this one appears in its final form , the form of the first part will no doubt be radically changed '' .
Malraux pretends , perhaps with a trifle too self-conscious a modesty , that his fragmentary work will accordingly `` appeal only to the curiosity of bibliophiles '' and `` to connoisseurs of what might have been '' .
Even in its present form , however , the first part of Malraux's unrecoverable novel is among the greatest works of mid-twentieth century literature ; ;
and it should be far better known than it is .
The theme of The Walnut Trees Of Altenburg is most closely related to its immediate predecessor in Malraux's array of novels : Man's Hope ( 1937 ) .
This magnificent but greatly underestimated book , which bodies forth the very form and pressure of its time as no other comparable creation , has suffered severely from having been written about an historical event -- the Spanish Civil War -- that is still capable of fanning the smoldering fires of old political feuds .
Even so apparently impartial a critic as W. H. Frohock has taken for granted that the book was originally intended as a piece of Loyalist propaganda ; ;
and has then gone on to argue , with unimpeachable consistency , that all the obviously non-propagandistic aspects of the book are simply inadvertent `` contradictions '' .
Nothing , however , could be farther from the truth .
The whole purpose of Man's Hope is to portray the tragic dialectic between means and ends inherent in all organized political violence -- and even when such violence is a necessary and legitimate self-defense of liberty , justice and human dignity .
Nowhere before in Malraux's pages have we met such impassioned defenders of a `` quality of man '' which transcends the realm of politics and even the realm of action altogether -- both the action of Malraux's early anarchist-adventurers like Perken and Garine , and the self-sacrificing action of dedicated Communists like Kyo Gisors and Katow in Man's Fate .
`` Man engages only a small part of himself in an action '' says old Alvear the art-historian ; ;
`` and the more the action claims to be total , the smaller is the part of man engaged '' .
These lines never cease to haunt the book amidst all the exaltations of combat , and to make an appeal for a larger and more elemental human community than one based on the brutal necessities of war .
It is this larger theme of the `` quality of man '' , a quality that transcends the ideological and flows into `` the human '' , which now forms the pulsating heart of Malraux's artistic universe .
Malraux , to be sure , does not abandon the world of violence , combat and sudden death which has become his hallmark as a creative artist , and which is the only world , apparently , in which his imagination can flame into life .
The Walnut Trees Of Altenburg includes not one war but two , and throws in a Turkish revolution along with some guerrilla fighting in the desert for good measure .
But while war still serves as a catalyst for the values that Malraux wishes to express , these values are no longer linked with the triumph or defeat of any cause -- whether that of an individual assertion of the will-to-power , or a collective attempt to escape from the humiliation of oppression -- as their necessary condition .
On the contrary , the frenzy and furor of combat is only the sombre foil against which the sudden illuminations of the human flash forth with the piercing radiance of a Caravaggio .
2 ,
The Walnut Trees Of Altenburg is composed in the form of a triptych , with the two small side panels framing and enclosing the main central episode of the novel .
This central episode consists of a series of staccato scenes set in the period from the beginning of the present century up to the first World War .
The framing scenes , on the other hand , both take place in the late Spring of 1940 , just at the moment of the defeat of France in the second great world conflict .
The narrator is an Alsatian serving with the French Army , and he has the same name ( Berger ) that Malraux himself was later to use in the Resistance ; ;
like Malraux he was also serving in the tank corps before being captured , and we learn as well that in civilian life he had been a writer .
These biographical analogies are obvious , and far too much time has been spent speculating on their possible implications .
Much more important is to grasp the feelings of the narrator ( whose full name is never given ) as he becomes aware of the disorganized and bewildered mass of French prisoners clustered together in a temporary prison camp in and around the cathedral of Chartres .
For as his companions gradually dissolve back into a state of primitive confrontation with elemental necessity , as they lose all the appanage of their acquired culture , he is overcome by the feeling that he is at last being confronted with the essence of mankind .
`` As a writer , by what have I been obsessed these last ten years , if not by mankind ? ?
Here I am face to face with the primeval stuff '' .
The intuition about mankind conveyed in these opening pages is of crucial importance for understanding the remainder of the text ; ;
and we must attend to it more closely than has usually been done .
What does the narrator see and what does he feel ? ?
A good many pages of the first section are taken up with an account of the dogged determination of the prisoners to write to their wives and families -- even when it becomes clear that the Germans are simply allowing the letters to blow away in the wind .
Awkwardly and laboriously , in stiff , unemotional phrases , the soldiers continue to bridge the distance between themselves and those they love ; ;
they instinctively struggle to keep open a road to the future in their hearts .
And by a skillful and unobtrusive use of imagery ( the enclosure is called a `` Roman-camp stockade '' , the hastily erected lean-to is a `` Babylonian hovel '' , the men begin to look like `` Peruvian mummies '' and to acquire `` Gothic faces '' ) , Malraux projects a fresco of human endurance -- which is also the endurance of the human -- stretching backward into the dark abyss of time .
The narrator feels himself catching a glimpse of pre-history , learning of man's `` age-old familiarity with misfortune '' , as well as his `` equally age-old ingenuity , his secret faith in endurance , however crammed with catastrophes , the same faith perhaps as the cave-men used to have in the face of famine '' .
This new vision of man that the narrator acquires is also accompanied by a re-vision of his previous view .
`` I thought I knew more than my education had taught me , '' notes the narrator , `` because I had encountered the militant mobs of a political or religious faith '' .
Is this not Malraux himself alluding to his own earlier infatuation with the ideological ? ?
But now he knows `` that an intellectual is not only a man to whom books are necessary , he is any man whose reasoning , however elementary it may be , affects and directs his life '' .
From this point of view the `` militant mobs '' of the past , stirred into action by one ideology or another , were all composed of `` intellectuals '' -- and this is not the level on which the essence of mankind can be discovered .
The men around him , observes the narrator , `` have been living from day to day for thousands of years '' .
The human is deeper than a mass ideology , certainly deeper than the isolated individual ; ;
and the narrator recalls the words of his father , Vincent Berger : `` It is not by any amount of scratching at the individual that one finally comes down to mankind '' .
The entire middle section of The Walnut Trees is taken up with the life of Vincent Berger himself , whose fragmentary notes on his `` encounters with mankind '' are now conveyed by his son .
`` He was not much older than myself , '' writes the narrator , `` when he began to feel the impact of that human mystery which now obsesses me , and which makes me begin , perhaps , to understand him '' .
For the figure of Vincent Berger Malraux has obviously drawn on his studies of T. E. Lawrence ( though Berger fights on the side of the Turks instead of against them ) , and like both Lawrence and Malraux himself he is a fervent admirer of Nietzsche .
A professor at the University of Constantinople , where his first course of lectures was on Nietzsche and the `` philosophy of action '' , Vincent Berger becomes head of the propaganda department of the German Embassy in Turkey .
As an Alsatian before the first World War he was of course of German nationality ; ;
but he quickly involves himself in the Young Turk revolutionary movement to such an extent that his own country begins to doubt his patriotism .
And , after becoming the right-hand man of Enver Pasha , he is sent by the latter to pave the way for a new Turkish Empire embracing `` the union of all Turks throughout Central Asia from Adrianople to the Chinese oases on the Silk Trade Route '' .
Vincent Berger's mission is a failure because the Ottoman nationalism on which Enver Pasha counted does not exist .
Central Asia is sunk in a somnolence from which nothing can awaken it ; ;
and amid a dusty desolation in which nothing human any longer seemed to survive , Vincent Berger begins to dream of the Occident .
`` Oh , for the green of Europe ! !
Trains whistling in the night , the rattle and clatter of cabs .
'' Finally , after almost being beaten to death by a madman -- he could not fight back because madmen are sacred to Islam -- he throws up his mission and returns to Europe .
This has been his first encounter with mankind , and , although he has now become a legendary figure in the popular European press , it leaves him profoundly dissatisfied .
Despite Berger's report , Enver Pasha refuses to surrender his dream of a Turkish Blood Alliance ; ;
and Vincent Berger learns that political ambition is more apt to hide than to reveal the truth about men .
But as he discovers shortly , on returning among intellectuals obsessed by le culte du moi , his experience of action had also taught him a more positive lesson .
`` For six years my father had had to do too much commanding and convincing , '' writes the narrator , `` not to understand that man begins with ' the other ' '' .
And when Vincent Berger returns to Europe , this first result of his encounters with mankind is considerably enriched and deepened by a crucial revelation .
For a dawning sense of illumination occurs in consequence of two events which , as so often in Malraux , suddenly confront a character with the existential question of the nature and value of human life .
One such event is the landing in Europe itself , when the mingled familiarity and strangeness of the Occident , after the blank immensities of Asia , shocks the returning traveller into a realization of the infinite possibilities of human life .
In a pessimistic assessment of the cold war , Eden declared : `` There must be much closer unity within the West before there can be effective negotiation with the East '' .
Ordinary methods of diplomacy within the free world are inadequate , said the former Prime Minister .
`` Something much more thorough is required '' .
Citing the experience of the Combined Chiefs of Staff in World War 2 , , Eden said that all would have been confusion and disarray without them .
`` This '' , he said , `` is exactly what has been happening between the politically free nations in the postwar world .
We need joint chiefs of a political general staff '' .
Citing the advances of Communist power in recent years , Sir Anthony observed : `` This very grave state of affairs will continue until the free nations accept together the reality of the danger that confronts them and unite their policies and resources to meet it '' .
While I fully agree with Sir Anthony's contention , I think that we must carry the analysis farther , bearing in mind that while common peril may be the measure of our need , the existence or absence of a positive sense of community must be the measure of our capacity .
While it is hazardous to project the trend of history , it seems clear that a genuine community is painfully emerging in the Western world , particularly among the countries of Western Europe .
At the end of World War 2 , , free Europe was ready for a new beginning .
The excesses of nationalism had brought down upon Europe a generation of tyranny and war , and a return to the old order of things seemed unthinkable .
Under these conditions a new generation of Europeans began to discover the bonds of long association and shared values that for so long had been subordinated to nationalist xenophobia .
A slow and painful trend toward unification has taken hold , a trend which may at any time be arrested and reversed but which may also lead to a binding federation of Europe .
It may well be that the unification of Europe will prove inadequate , that the survival of free society will require nothing less than the confederation of the entire Western world .
The movement toward European unity has been expressed in two currents : federalism and functionalism , one looking to the constitution of a United States of Europe , the other building on wartime precedents of practical cooperation for the solution of specific problems .
Thus far the advances made have been almost entirely along functional lines .
Many factors contributed to the growth of the European movement .
In 1946 Sir Winston Churchill , who had spoken often of European union during the war , advocated the formation of `` a kind of United States of Europe '' .
Had Churchill been returned to office in 1945 , it is just possible that Britain , instead of standing fearfully aloof , would have led Europe toward union .
In 1947 and 1948 the necessity of massive coordinated efforts to achieve economic recovery led to the formation of the Organization for European Economic Cooperation to supervise and coordinate the uses of American aid under the Marshall Plan .
The United States might well have exploited the opportunity provided by the European Recovery Program to push the hesitant European nations toward political federation as well as economic cooperation , but all proposals to this effect were rejected by the United States Government at the time .
Another powerful factor in the European movement was the threat of Soviet aggression .
The Communist coup in Czechoslovakia in 1948 was followed immediately by the conclusion of the Brussels Treaty , a 50-year alliance among Britain , France and the Benelux countries .
And of course the Soviet threat was responsible for NATO , the grand alliance of the Atlantic nations .
New organs of unification proliferated in the decade following the conclusion of the NATO alliance .
In 1949 the Council of Europe came into existence , a purely consultative parliamentary body but the first organ of political rather than functional unity .
In 1952 , the European Coal and Steel Community was launched , placing the coal and steel production of France , West Germany , Italy and Benelux under a supranational High Authority .
For a time it appeared that a common European army might be created , but the project for a European Defense Community was rejected by the French National Assembly in 1954 .
In 1957 the social-economic approach to European integration was capped by the formation among `` the Six '' of a tariff-free European Common Market , and Euratom for cooperation in the development of atomic energy .
The `` overseas '' democracies have generally encouraged the European unification movement without seriously considering the wisdom of their own full participation in a broader Atlantic community .
The United States and Canada belong only to NATO and the new O.E.C.D. .
Britain until recently went along in some areas with all of the enthusiasm of the groom at a shotgun wedding .
In other areas it held back , pleading its Commonwealth bonds .
Now Britain has decided to seek admission to the European Economic Community and it seems certain that she will be joined by some of her partners in the loose Free Trade Area of the `` Outer Seven '' .
Besides its historical significance as a break with the centuries-old tradition of British insularity , Britain's move , if successful , will constitute an historic landmark of the first importance in the movement toward the unification of Europe and the Western world .
If a broader Atlantic community is to be formed -- and my own judgment is that it lies within the realm of both our needs and our capacity -- a ready nucleus of machinery is at hand in the NATO alliance .
The time is now ripe , indeed overdue , for the vigorous development of its non-military potentialities , for its development as an instrument of Atlantic community .
What is required is the full implementation of Article 2 of the Treaty , which provides : `` The Parties will contribute toward the further development of peaceful and friendly international relations by strengthening their free institutions , by bringing about a better understanding of the principles upon which these institutions are founded , and by promoting conditions of stability and well-being .
They will seek to eliminate conflict in their international economic policies and will encourage economic collaboration between any and all of them '' .
As Lester Pearson wrote in 1955 : :
`` NATO cannot live on fear alone .
It cannot become the source of a real Atlantic community if it remains organized to deal only with the military threat which first brought it into being '' .
The problem of NATO is not one of machinery , of which there is an abundance , but of the will to use it .
The NATO Council is available as an executive agency , the Standing Group as a high military authority .
The unofficial Conference of Parliamentarians is available as a potential legislative authority .
This machinery will not become the instrument of an Atlantic community by fiat , but only when that community evolves from potentiality to reality .
The existence of a community is a state of mind -- a conviction that goals and values are widely shared , that effective communication is possible , that mutual trust is reasonably assured .
An equally promising avenue toward Atlantic community may lie through the development and expansion of the O.E.C.D. .
Conceived as an organ of economic cooperation , there is no reason why O.E.C.D. cannot evolve into a broader instrument of union if its members so desire .
Indeed it might be a more appropriate vehicle than NATO for the development of a parliamentary organ of the Atlantic nations , because it could encompass all of the members of the Atlantic community including those , like Sweden and Switzerland , who are unwilling to be associated with an essentially military alliance like Aj .
Underlying these hopes and prescriptions is a conviction that the nations of the North Atlantic area do indeed form a community , at least a potential community .
There is nothing new in this ; ;
what is new and compelling is that the West is now but one of several powerful civilizations , or `` systems '' , and that one or more of the others may pose a mortal danger to the West .
For centuries the North Atlantic nations dominated the world and as long as they did they could afford the luxury of fighting each other .
That time is now past and the Atlantic nations , if they are to survive , must develop a full-fledged community , and they must also look beyond the frontiers of `` Western civilization '' toward a world-wide `` concert of free nations '' .
6 ,
The burden of these reflections is that a broader unity among the free nations is at the core of our needs .
And if we do not aspire to too much , it is also within our capacity .
A realistic balancing of the need for new forms of international organization on the one hand , and our capacity to achieve them on the other , must be approached through the concept of `` community '' .
History has demonstrated many times that concerts of nations based solely on the negative spur of common danger are unlikely to survive when the external danger ceases to be dramatically urgent .
Only when a concert of nations rests on the positive foundations of shared goals and values is it likely to form a viable instrument of long-range policy .
It follows that the solution to the current disunity of the free nations is only to a very limited extent a matter of devising new machinery of consultation and coordination .
It is very much a matter of building the foundations of community .
It is for these reasons that proposals for a `` new world order '' , through radical overhaul of the United Nations or through some sort of world federation , are utterly fatuous .
In a recent book called `` World Peace Through World Law '' , two distinguished lawyers , Grenville Clark and Louis Sohn , call for just such an overhaul of the U.N. , basing their case on the world-wide fear of a nuclear holocaust .
I believe that these proposals , however meritorious in terms of world needs , go far beyond our capacity to realize them .
Such proposals look to an apocalyptic act , a kind of Lockian `` social contract '' on a world-wide scale .
The defect of these proposals is in their attempt to outrun history and their assumption that because something may be desirable it is also possible .
A working concept of the organic evolution of community must lead us in a different direction .
The failures of the U.N. and of other international organs suggest that we have already gone beyond what was internationally feasible .
Our problem , therefore , is to devise processes more modest in their aspirations , adjusted to the real world of sovereign nation states and diverse and hostile communities .
The history of the U.N. demonstrates that in a pluralistic world we must develop processes of influence and persuasion rather than coercion .
It is possible that international organization will ultimately supplant the multi-state system , but its proper function for the immediate future is to reform and supplement that system in order to render pluralism more compatible with an interdependent world .
New machinery of coordination should not be our primary objective in the foreseeable future -- though perhaps the `` political general staff '' of Western leaders proposed by Sir Anthony Eden would serve a useful purpose .
Generally , however , there is an abundance of available machinery of coordination -- in NATO , in O.E.C.D. , in the U.N. and elsewhere .
The trouble with this machinery is that it is not used and the reason that it is not used is the absence of a conscious sense of community among the free nations .
Our proper objective , then , is the development of a new spirit , the realization of a potential community .
A `` concert of free nations '' should take its inspiration from the traditions of the nineteenth century Concert of Europe with its common values and accepted `` rules of the game '' .
Constitutions of and by themselves mean little ; ;
the history of both the League of Nations and the United Nations demonstrates that .
But a powerful sense of community , even with little or no machinery , means a great deal .
That is the lesson of the nineteenth century .
A realistic `` concert of free nations '' might be expected to consist of an `` inner community '' of the North Atlantic nations and an `` outer community '' embracing much or all of the non-Communist world .
The recent experiments in the new poetry-and-jazz movement seen by some as part of the `` San Francisco Renaissance '' have been as popular as they are notorious .
`` It might well start a craze like swallowing goldfish or pee-wee golf '' , wrote Kenneth Rexroth in an explanatory note in the Evergreen Review , and he may have been right .
Under the general heading `` poetry-and-jazz '' widely divergent experiments have been carried out .
Lawrence Ferlenghetti and Bruce Lippincott have concentrated on writing a new poetry for reading with jazz that is very closely related to both the musical forms of jazz , and the vocabulary of the musician .
Even musicians themselves have taken to writing poetry .
( Judy Tristano now has poems as well as ballads written for her .
)
But the best known exploiters of the new medium are Kenneth Rexroth and Kenneth Patchen .
Rexroth and Patchen are far apart musically and poetically in their experiments .
Rexroth is a longtime jazz buff , a name-dropper of jazz heroes , and a student of traditional as well as modern jazz .
In San Francisco he has worked with Brew Moore , Charlie Mingus , and other `` swinging '' musicians of secure reputation , thus placing himself within established jazz traditions , in addition to being a part of the San Francisco `` School '' .
Although Patchen has given previous evidence of an interest in jazz , the musical group that he works with , the Chamber Jazz Sextet , is often ignored by jazz critics .
( Downbeat did not mention the Los Angeles appearance of Patchen and the Sextet , although the engagement lasted over two months .
) The stated goal of the CJS is the synthesis of jazz and `` serious '' music .
Patchen's musicians are outsiders in established jazz circles , and Patchen himself has remained outside the San Francisco poetry group , maintaining a self-imposed isolation , even though his conversion to poetry-and-jazz is not as extreme or as sudden as it may first appear .
He had read his poetry with musicians as early as 1951 , and his entire career has been characterized by radical experiments with the form and presentation of his poetry .
However , his subject matter and basic themes have remained surprisingly consistent , and these , together with certain key poetic images , may be traced through all his work , including the new jazz experiments .
From the beginning of his career , Patchen has adopted an anti-intellectual approach to poetry .
His first book , Before The Brave ( 1936 ) , is a collection of poems that are almost all Communistic , but after publication of this book he rejected Communism , and advocated a pacifistic anarchy , though retaining his revolutionary idiom .
He spoke for a `` proletariat '' that included `` all the lost and sick and hunted of the earth '' .
Patchen believes that the world is being destroyed by power-hungry and money-hungry people .
Running counter to the destroying forces in the world are all the virtues that are innate in man , the capacity for love and brotherhood , the ability to appreciate beauty .
Beauty as well as love is redemptive , and Patchen preaches a kind of moral salvation .
This salvation does not take the form of a Christian Heaven .
In Patchen's eyes , organized churches are as odious as organized governments , and Christian symbols , having been taken over by the moneyed classes , are now agents of corruption .
Patchen envisions a Dark Kingdom which `` stands above the waters as a sentinel warning man of danger from his own kind '' .
The Dark Kingdom sends Angels of Death and other fateful messengers down to us with stern tenderness .
Actually Heaven and the Dark Kingdom overlap ; ;
they form two aspects of heavenly life after death .
Patchen has almost never used strict poetic forms ; ;
he has experimented instead with personal myth-making .
Much of his earlier work was conceived in terms of a `` pseudo-anthropological '' myth reference , which is concerned with imaginary places and beings described in grandiloquent and travelogue-like language .
These early experiments were evidently not altogether satisfying to Patchen .
Beginning in Cloth Of The Tempest ( 1943 ) he experimented in merging poetry and visual art , using drawings to carry long narrative segments of a story , as in Sleepers Awake , and constructing elaborate `` poems-in-drawing-and-type '' in which it is impossible to distinguish between the `` art '' and the poetry .
Art `` makings '' or pseudo-anthropological myths did not meet all of Patchen's requirements for a poetic frame of reference .
Many of his poems purported to be exactly contemporary and political ; ;
so during the period approximately from 1941 to 1946 , Patchen often used private detective stories as a myth reference , and the `` private eye '' as a myth hero .
Speaking in terms of sociological stereotype , the `` private eye '' might appeal to the poet in search of a myth for many reasons .
The private detective ( at least in the minds of listeners and readers all over the country ) is an individual hero fighting injustice .
He is usually something of an underdog , he must battle the organized police force as well as recognized criminals .
The private detective must rely , as the Youngest Son or Trickster Hero does in primitive myth , on his wits .
The private detective is militant against injustice , a humorous and ironic explorer of the underworld ; ;
most important to Patchen , he was a non-literary hero , and very contemporary .
In 1945 , probably almost every American not only knew who Sam Spade was , but had some kind of emotional feeling about him .
In The Memoirs Of A Shy Pornographer ( 1945 ) Patchen exploited this national sentiment by making his hero , Albert Budd , a private detective .
But since 1945 , Sam Spade has undergone a metamorphosis ; ;
he has become Friday on Dragnet , a mouthpiece of arbitrary police authority .
He has , like so many other secular and religious culture symbols , gone over to the side of the ruling classes .
Obviously , the `` private eye '' can have no more appeal for Patchen .
To fill the job of contemporary hero in 1955 , Patchen needed someone else .
It was logical that he would come up with the figure of the modern jazz musician .
The revolution in jazz that took place around 1949 , the evolution from the `` bebop '' school of Dizzy Gillespie to the `` cool '' sound of Miles Davis and Lennie Tristano , Lee Konitz , and the whole legend of Charlie Parker , had made an impression on many academic and literary men .
The differentiation between the East Coast and West Coast schools of jazz , the differences between the `` hard bop '' school of Rollins , and the `` cerebral '' experiments of Tristano , Konitz and Marsh , the general differences in the mores of white and Negro musicians , all had become fairly well known to certain segments of the public .
The immense amount of interest that the new jazz had for the younger generation must have impressed him , and he began working toward the merger of jazz and poetry , as he had previously attempted the union of graphic art and poetry .
In addition to his experiments in reading poetry to jazz , Patchen is beginning to use the figure of the modern jazz musician as a myth hero in the same way he used the figure of the private detective a decade ago .
In this respect , his approach to poetry-and-jazz is in marked contrast to Kenneth Rexroth's .
Rexroth uses many of his early poems when he reads to jazz , including many of his Chinese and Japanese translations ; ;
he usually draws some kind of comparison with the jazz tradition and the poem he is reading -- for instance , he draws the parallel between a poem he reads about an Oriental courtesan waiting for the man she loves , and who never comes , and the old blues chants of Ma Rainy and other Negro singers -- but usually the comparison is specious .
Rexroth may sometimes achieve an effective juxtaposition , but he rarely makes any effort to capture any jazz `` feeling '' in the text of his poems , relying on his very competent musicians to supply this feeling .
Patchen does read some of his earlier works to music , but he has written an entire book of short poems which seem to be especially suited for reading with jazz .
These new poems have only a few direct references to jazz and jazz musicians , but they show changes in Patchen's approach to his poetry , for he has tried to enter into and understand the emotional attitude of the jazz musician .
It is difficult to draw the line between stereotype and the reality of the jazz musician .
Everyone knows that private detectives in real life are not like Sam Spade and Pat Novak , but the real and the imaginary musician are closely linked .
Seen by the public , the musician is the underdog par excellence .
He is forced to play for little money , and must often take another job to live .
His approach to music is highly individualistic ; ;
the accent is on improvisation rather than arrangements .
While he is worldly , the musician often cultivates public attitudes of childlike astonishment and naivete .
The musician is non-intellectual and non-verbal ; ;
he is far from being a literary hero , yet is a creative artist .
Many of these aspects will be seen as comparable to those of the ideal detective , but where the detective is active and militant , the jazz musician is passive , almost a victim of society .
In order to write with authority either about musicians , or as a musician , Patchen would have to soft pedal his characteristically outspoken anger , and change ( at least for the purposes of this poetry ) from a revolutionary to a victim .
He must become one who knows all about the injustice in the world , but who declines doing anything about it .
This involves a shift in Patchen's attitude and it is a first step toward writing a new jazz poetry .
He has shown considerable ingenuity in adapting his earliest symbols and devices to the new work , and the fact that he has kept a body of constant symbols through all of his experiments gives an unexpected continuity to his poetry .
Perhaps tracing some of these more important symbols through the body of his work will show that Patchen's new poetry is well thought out , and remains within the mainstream of his work , while being suited to a new form .
Henry Miller characterized Patchen as a `` man of anger and light '' .
His revolutionary anger is apparent in most of his early poems .
The following passage from `` The Hangman's Great Hands '' illustrates the directness of this anger .
`` Anger won't help .
I was born angry .
Angry that my father was being burnt alive in the mills ; ;
Angry that none of us knew anything but filth and poverty .
Angry because I was that very one somebody was supposed To be fighting for '' .
This angry and exasperated stance which Patchen has maintained in his poetry for almost fifteen years has been successfully modulated into a kind of woe that is as effective as anger and still expresses his disapproval of the modern world .
In his recent book , Hurray For Anything ( 1957 ) , one of the most important short poems -- and it is the title poem for one of the long jazz arrangements -- is written for recital with jazz .
Although it does not follow the metrical rules for a blues to be sung , the phrases themselves carry a blues feeling .
`` I went to the city And there I did Weep , Men a-crowing like asses , And living like sheep .
Oh , can't hold the han' of my love ! !
Can't hold her little white han' ! !
Yes , I went to the city , And there I did bitterly cry , Men out of touch with the earth , And with never a glance at the sky .
Oh , can't hold the han' of my love ! !
Can't hold her pure little han' ! !
'' Patchen is still the rebel , but he writes in a doleful , mournful tone .
Neither of these poems is an aberration ; ;
each is so typical that it represents a prominent trend in the poet's development .
Patchen is repeatedly preoccupied with death .
In many of his poems , death comes by train : a strongly evocative visual image .
Perhaps Patchen was once involved in a train accident , and this passage from First Will And Testament may have been how the accident appeared to the poet when he first saw it -- if he did : ``
Lord , love us , look at all the disconnected limbs floating hereabouts , like bloody feathers at that -- and all the eyes are talking and all the hair are moving and all the tongue are in all the cheek .
Let us see just how typical Krim is .
He is New York-born and Jewish .
He spent one year at the University of North Carolina because Thomas Wolfe went there .
He returned to New York to work for The New Yorker , to edit a Western pulp , to `` duck the war in the OWI '' , to write publicity for Paramount Pictures and commentary for a newsreel , then he began his career as critic for various magazines .
Now he has abandoned all that to be A Writer .
I do not want to quibble about typicality ; ;
in a certain sense , one manner of experience will be typical of any given group while another will not .
But I've got news for Krim : he's not typical , he's pretty special .
His may typify a certain kind of postwar New York experience , but his experience is certainly not typical of his `` generation's '' .
In any case , who ever thought that New York is typical of anything ? ?
Men of Krim's age , aspirations , and level of sophistication were typically involved in politics before the war .
They did not `` duck the war '' but they fought in it , however reluctantly ; ;
they sweated out some kind of formal education ; ;
they read widely and eclectically ; ;
they did not fall into pseudo-glamorous jobs on pseudo-glamorous magazines , but they did whatever nasty thing they could get in order to eat ; ;
they found out who they were and what they could do , then within the limits of their talent they did it .
They did not worry about `` experience '' , because experience thrust itself upon them .
And they traveled out of New York .
Only a native New Yorker could believe that New York is now or ever was a literary center .
It is a publishing and public relations center , but these very facts prevent it from being a literary center because writers dislike provincialism and untruth .
Krim's typicality consists only in his New Yorker's view that New York is the world ; ;
he displays what outlanders call the New York mind , a state that the subject is necessarily unable to perceive in himself .
The New York mind is two parts abstraction and one part misinformation about the rest of the country and in fact the world .
In his fulminating against the literary world , Krim is really struggling with the New Yorker in himself , but it's a losing battle .
Closely related to his illusions about his typicality is Krim's complicated feeling about his Jewishness .
He writes , `` Most of my friends and I were Jewish ; ;
we were also literary ; ;
the combination of the Jewish intellectual tradition and the sensibility needed to be a writer created in my circle the most potent and incredible intellectual-literary ambition I have ever seen or could ever have imagined .
Within themselves , just as people , my friends were often tortured and unappeasably bitter about being the offspring of this unhappily unique-ingrown-screwedup breed ; ;
their reading and thinking gave an extension to their normal blushes about appearing ' Jewish ' in subway , bus , racetrack , movie house , any of the public places that used to make the Jew of my generation self-conscious ( heavy thinkers walking across Seventh Avenue without their glasses on , willing to dare the trucks as long as they didn't look like the ikey-kikey caricature of the Yiddish intellectual ) .
'' At other points in his narrative , Krim associates Jewishness with unappeasable literary ambition , with abstraction , with his personal turning aside from the good , the true , and the beautiful of fiction in the manner of James T. Farrell to the international , the false , and the inflated .
Krim says , in short , that he is a suffering Jew .
The only possible answer to that is , I am a suffering Franco-Irishman .
We all love to suffer , but some of us love to suffer more than others .
Had Krim gone farther from New York than Chapel Hill , he might have discovered that large numbers of American Jews do not find his New York version of the Jews' lot remotely recognizable .
More important is the simple human point that all men suffer , and that it is a kind of anthropological-religious pride on the part of the Jew to believe that his suffering is more poignant than mine or anyone else's .
This is not to deny the existence of pogroms and ghettos , but only to assert that these horrors have had an effect on the nerves of people who did not experience them , that among the various side effects is the local hysteria of Jewish writers and intellectuals who cry out from confusion , which they call oppression and pain .
In their stupidity and arrogance they believe they are called upon to remind the gentile continually of pogroms and ghettos .
Some of us have imagination and sensibility too .
Finally , there is the undeniable fact that some of the finest American fiction is being written by Jews , but it is not Jewish fiction ; ;
Saul Bellow and Bernard Malamud , through intellectual toughness , perception , through experience in fact , have obviously liberated themselves from any sentimental Krim self-indulgence they might have been tempted to .
Krim's main attack is upon the aesthetic and the publishing apparatus of American literary culture in our day .
Krim was able to get an advance for a novel , and time and opportunity to write at Yaddo , but it was no good .
`` I had natural sock '' , he says , ' as a storyteller and was precociously good at description , dialogue , and most of the other staples of the fiction-writer's trade but I was bugged by a mammoth complex of thoughts and feelings that prevented me from doing more than just diddling the surface of sustained fiction-writing '' .
And again , `` how can you write when you haven't yet read ' Bartleby The Scrivener ' '' ? ?
Krim came to believe that `` the novel as a form had outlived its vital meaning '' .
His `` articulate Jewish friends '' convinced him that education ( read `` reading '' ) was `` a must '' .
He moved in a `` highly intellectual '' group in Greenwich Village in the late forties , becoming `` internationalized '' overnight .
Then followed a period in which he wrote reviews for The New York Times Book Review , The Commonweal , Commentary , had a small piece in Partisan Review , and moved on to Hudson , The Village Voice , and Exodus .
The work for Commonweal was more satisfying than work for Commentary `` because of the staff's tiptoeing fear of making a booboo '' .
Commentary was a mere suburb of Partisan Review , the arch-enemy .
Both magazines were `` rigid with reactionary what-will-T. S. Eliot-or-Martin Buber-think ? ?
fear .
'' Partisan has failed , Krim says , for being `` snob-clannish , overcerebral , Europeanish , aristocratically alienated '' from the U.S. .
It was `` the creation of a monstrous historical period wherein it thought it had to synthesize literature and politics and avant-garde art of every kind with its writers crazily trying to outdo each other in Spenglerian inclusiveness .
'' Kenyon , Sewanee , and Hudson operated in an `` Anglo-Protestant New Critical chill '' ; ;
their example caused Krim and his friends to put on `` Englishy airs , affect all sorts of impressive scholarship and social-register unnaturalness in order to slip through their narrow transoms and get into their pages '' .
Qui s'excuse s'accuse , as the French Jewish intellectuals used to say .
Through all this raving , Krim is performing a traditional and by now boring rite , the attack on intelligence , upon the largely successful attempt of the magazines he castigates to liberate American writing from local color and other varieties of romantic corn .
God knows that Partisan and the rest often were , and remain , guilty of intellectual flatulence .
Sociological jargon , Germano-Slavic approximations to English , third-rate but modish fiction , and outrages to common sense have often disfigured Partisan , and in lesser degree , the other magazines on the list .
What Krim ignores , in his contempt for history and for accuracy , is that these magazines , Partisan foremost , brought about a genuine revolution in the American mind from the mid-thirties to approximately 1950 .
The most obvious characteristic of contemporary American writing , apart from the beat nonsense , is its cosmopolitanism .
The process of cosmopolitanism had begun in earnest about 1912 , but the First War and the depression virtually stalled that process in its tracks .
Without the good magazines , without their book reviews , their hospitality to European writers , without above all their awareness of literary standards , we might very well have had a generation of Krim's heroes -- Wolfes , Farrells , Dreisers , and I might add , Sandburgs and Frosts and MacLeishes in verse -- and then where would we be ? ?
Screwed , stewed , and tattooed , as Krim might say after reading a book about sailors .
When Partisan and Kenyon set up shop , Mencken was still accepted as an arbiter of taste ( remember Hergesheimer ? ?
) , George Jean Nathan and Alexander Woollcott were honored in odd quarters , and the whole Booth Tarkington , Willa Catheter ( sic ) , ) Pearl , Buck , , Amy Lowell , William Lyon Phelps atmosphere lay thick as Los Angeles smog
over , the , country -- .
Politics , economics , sociology -- the entire area of life that lies `` between '' -- literature and what Krim calls experience -- urgently needed to be dug into .
The universities certainly were not doing it , nor were the popular magazines of the day .
This Partisan above all did ; ;
if it had never printed a word of literature its contribution to the politico-sociological area would still be historic .
But it did print good verse and good fiction .
If , the editors sometimes , dozed and printed pretentious , New , York-mind , dross , they , also printed , Malraux , , Silone , , Chiaromonte , , Gide , Bellow , , Robert Lowell , Francis Fergusson , Mary McCarthy , Delmore Schwartz , Mailer , Elizabeth Hardwick , Eleanor Clark , , and a host of , other good writers .
Partisan Review and the other literary magazines helped to educate , in the best sense , an entire generation .
That these magazines also deluded the Krims of the world is unfortunate but inevitable .
It is a fact of life that magazines are edited by groups : they have to be or they wouldn't be published at all .
And it is also a fact of life that there will always ( be youngish half-educated people around , who will be dazzled by the glitter of what looks like a literary movement .
( there are no ) literary movements , `` there are only writers doing their work .
Literary movements are the '' , creation of pimps who live off writers .
) when Krim says mine was as severe a critical-intellectual , environment as can be imagined , he is off his rocker .
He indicates that he has none of the , disciplines that criticism requires , including education ; ;
the result was his inevitable bedazzlement through , ignorance .
He wasn't being , `` educated in '' those Village bull-sessions , as he claims .
No one was ever educated through bull-sessions in anything other than , to quote him again , `` perfumed bullshit .
Only '' a New York hick would expect to find the literary life in Greenwich Village , at any point , later than Walt Whitman's day .
The highly intellectual minds that Krim says he encountered , in the Village did their work in spite of , , not because of , any Village atmosphere .
But Krim's complaint is important because not only in New York , but in other cities and in universities throughout this country , young and not , so young men at
this moment are being bedazzled by half-digested ideas .
Those who have quality will outgrow `` the experience ; ;
the '' , rest will turn beat , or into dentists , or into beat , dentists .
For the sad truth is that while one might write well without having read Bartleby The Scrivener , one is more likely , to write well if one has `` read it , and much else .
The most appalling aspect of Krim's piece is his reflection of the beat aesthetic .
He mentions the beats only once '' , when he refers to their having revived through mere power and abandonment and the unwillingness to , commit death in life some idea of a decent equivalent between verbal expression and actual experience , , but the entire narrative , is written in the tiresome vocabulary `` of '' that lost `` and '' dying cause , `` and in the '' `` sprung syntax that is supposed to supplant , our mother , tongue .
Krim's ( aesthetic combines anti-intellectualism , conscious and unconscious naivete ) '' , and a winsome reliance `` upon the '' , natural and upon experience .
Ideas are the thruway to nowhere .
My `` touchstones , had , been strictly '' literature and , humanly enough , American literature ( because that was what I wanted to write ) .
He alludes to something called direct writing , and he finds that criticism gets in the way of his truer , realer , imaginative bounce .
There had been signs and portents like the regular toppling over and defacing of the bust of Lauro Di Bosis near the Villa Lante and in the Gianicolo .
Something was happening all right , slowly it is true , but you could feel it .
The Italians felt it .
Little things .
An Italian poet had noticed plainclothes policemen lounging around the area of Quirinal Palace , the first time since the war .
At least they hadn't stepped up and asked to see papers in the hated , flat , dialect mispronunciation of Mussolini's home district -- Dogumenti , per favore .
But , who knew , that might be coming one of these days .
There were other Italians who still bore scars they had earned in police station basements , resisting .
They laughed and , true to national form and manners , never talked long or solemnly on any subject at all , but some of them worried out loud about short memories and ghosts .
We saw Giuseppe Berto at a party once in a while , tall , lean , nervous and handsome , and , in our opinion , the best novelist of them all except Pavese , and Pavese is dead .
Berto's The Sky Is Red had been a small masterpiece and in its special way the best book to come out of the war .
Now he was married to a beautiful girl , had a small son , and lived in an expensive apartment and worked for the movies .
On his desk was a slowly accumulating treatment and script of The Count Of Monte Cristo .
On his bookshelves were some of the latest American novels , including Bellow's Seize The Day , but he hadn't read them ( they were sent by American publishers ) and wasn't especially interested in what the American writers were up to .
He was interested in Robert Musil's The Man Without Qualities .
So were a lot of other people .
He was interested in Italo Svevo .
He was thinking his way into a new novel , a big one , one that people had been waiting for .
It was going to be hard going all the way because he hadn't written seriously for a while , except for a few stories , was tired of the old method of realismo he had so successfully used in The Sky Is Red .
This one was going to be different .
He had bought a little piece of property down along the coast of the hard country of Calabria that he knew so well .
He was going to do one or two more films for cash and then chuck it all , leave Rome and its intellectual cliques and money-fed life , go back to Calabria .
Berto seemed worried , too .
He knew all about it and had put it down in journal form in The War In A Black Shirt , a wonderful book not , for some strange reason , published in the U.S. .
He knew all about the appeal of a black shirt and jackboots to a poor , southern , peasant boy .
He knew all about the infection and the fever , and , too , the moment of realization when he saw for himself , threw up his hands and quit , ended the war as a prisoner in Texas .
Berto knew all about Fascism .
So did his friend , the young novelist Rimanelli .
Rimanelli is tough and square-built and adventurous , says what he thinks .
He had put it down in a war novel , The Day Of The Lion .
These people were not talking much about it , but you , a foreigner , sensed their apprehension and disappointment .
So there we were talking around and about it .
The English lady said she had to go to Vienna for a while .
It was a pity because she had planned to lay a wreath at the foot of the Garibaldi statue , towering over Rome in spectacular benediction from the highpoint of the Gianicolo .
Around that statue in the green park where children play and lovers walk in twos and there is a glowing view of the whole city , in that park are the rows of marble busts of Garibaldi's fallen men , the ones who one day rushed out of the Porta San Pancrazio and , under fire all the way , up the long , straight narrow lane to take , then lose the high ground of the Villa Doria Pamphili .
When they lost it , the French artillery moved in , and that was the end for Garibaldi that time , on 30 April 1849 .
Once out of the gate they had charged straight up the narrow lane .
We had walked it many times and shivered , figuring what a fish barrel it had been for the French .
Now the park is filled with marble busts and all the streets in the immediate area have the full and proper names of the men who fell .
We were at a party once and heard an idealistic young European call that awful charge glorious .
Our companion was a huge , plain-spoken American sculptor who had been a sixteen-year-old rifleman all across France in 1944 .
He said it was stupid butchery to order men to make a charge like that , no matter who gave the order and what for .
`` Oh , it would be butchery all right '' , the European said .
`` We would see it that way , but it was glorious then .
It was the last time in history anybody could do something gloriously like that '' .
I thought : Who is older now ? ?
Old world and new world .
The sculptor looked at him , bugeyed and amazed , angry .
He had made an assault once with 180 men .
It was a picked assault company .
They went up against an SS unit of comparable size , over a little rise of ground , over an open field .
Object -- a village crossroads .
They made it , killed every last one of the Krauts , took the village on schedule .
When it was over , eight of his company were still alive and all eight were wounded .
The whole thing , from the moment when they jumped heavily off the trucks , spread out and moved into position just behind the cover of that slight rise of ground and then jumped off , took maybe between twenty and thirty minutes .
The sculptor looked at him , let the color drain out of his face , grinned , and looked down into his drink , a bad Martini made with raw Italian gin .
`` Bullshit '' , he said softly .
`` Excuse me '' , the European said .
`` I am not familiar with the expression '' .
The apartment where we were talking that afternoon in March faced onto the street Garibaldi's men had charged up and along .
Across the way from the apartment building is a ruined house , shot to hell that day in 1849 , and left that way as a memorial .
There is a bronze wreath on the wall .
Like everything else in Rome , ruins and monuments alike , that house is lived in .
I have seen diapers strung across the ruined roof .
The English lady really wanted to put a wreath on the Garibaldi monument on the 30th of April .
She had her reasons for this .
For one thing , there wasn't going to be any ceremony at all this year .
There were a few reasons for that , too : Garibaldi had been taken up and exploited by the Communists nowadays .
Therefore the government wanted no part of him .
( It is sort of as if our government should decide to disown Washington or Lincoln for the same reason .
) And then there were ecclesiastical matters , the matter of Garibaldi's anti-clericalism .
There was a new Pope and the Vatican was making itself heard and felt these days .
As it happens the English lady is a good Catholic herself , but of more liberal political persuasion .
Nothing was going to be done this year to celebrate Garibaldi's bold and unsuccessful defense of Rome .
All that the English lady wanted to do was to walk up to the monument and lay a wreath at its base .
This would show that somebody , even a foreigner living in Rome , cared .
And then there were other things .
Some of the marble busts in the park are of young Englishmen who fought and died for Garibaldi .
She also mentioned leaving a little bunch of flowers at the bust of Lauro Di Bosis .
It is hard for me to know how I feel about Lauro Di Bosis .
I suffer from mixed feelings .
He was a well-to-do , handsome , and sensitive young poet .
His bust shows an intense , mustached , fine-featured face .
He flew over Rome one day during the early days of Mussolini and scattered leaflets over the city , denouncing the Fascists .
He was never heard of again .
He is thought either to have been killed by the Fascists as soon as he landed or to have killed himself by flying out to sea and crashing his plane .
He was , thus , an early and spectacular victim .
And there is something so wonderfully romantic about it all .
He really didn't know how to fly .
He had crashed on takeoff once before .
Gossip had it ( for gossip is the soul of Rome ) that a famous American dancer of the time had paid for both the planes .
It was absurd and dramatic .
It is remembered and has been commemorated by a bust in a park and a square in the city which was renamed Piazzo Lauro Di Bosis after the war .
Most Romans , even some postmen , know it by the old name .
Faced with a gesture like Di Bosis' , I find usually that my sentiments are closer to those of my sculptor friend .
The things that happened in police station basements were dirty , grubby , and most often anonymous .
No poetry , no airplanes , no dancers .
That is how the real routine of resistance goes on , and its strength is directly proportionate to the number of insignificant people who can let themselves be taken to pieces , piece by piece , without quitting .
It is an ugly business and there are few , if any , wreaths for them .
I keep thinking of a young woman I knew during the Occupation in Austria .
She was from Prague .
She had been picked up by the Russians , questioned in connection with some pamphlets , sentenced to life imprisonment for espionage .
She escaped , crawled through the usual mine fields , under barbed wire , was shot at , swam a river , and we finally picked her up in Linz .
She showed us what had happened to her .
No airplanes , no Nathan Hale statements .
Just no spot , not even a dimesize spot , on her whole body that wasn't bruised , bruise on top of bruise , from beatings .
I understand very well about Lauro Di Bosis and how his action is symbolic .
The trouble is that like many symbols it doesn't seem a very realistic one .
The English lady wanted to pay tribute to Garibaldi and to Lauro Di Bosis , but she wasn't going to be here to do it .
Were any of us interested enough in the idea to do it for her , by proxy so to speak ? ?
There was a pretty thorough silence at that point .
My spoon stirring coffee , banging against the side of the cup , sounded as loud as a bell .
I thought : What the hell ? ?
Why not ? ?
I said I would do it for her .
I had some reasons , too .
I admire the English lady .
I hate embarrassing silences and have been known to make a fool out of myself just to prevent one .
I also had and have feelings about Garibaldi .
Like every Southerner I can't escape the romantic tradition of brave defeats , forlorn lost causes .
Though Garibaldi's fight was small shakes compared to Pickett's Charge -- which , like all Southerners , I view in almost Miltonic terms , fallen angels , etc. -- I associated the two .
And to top it all I am often sentimental on purpose , trying to prove to myself that I am not afraid of sentiment .
So much for all that .
The English lady was pleased and enthusiastic .
She gave me the names of some people who would surely help pay for the flowers and might even march up to the monument with me .
The idea of the march pleased her .
Maybe twenty , thirty , fifty .
Maybe I could call Rimanelli at the magazine Rottosei where he worked .
The Office of Business Economics ( OBE ) of the U.S. Department of Commerce provides basic measures of the national economy and current analysis of short-run changes in the economic situation and business outlook .
It develops and analyzes the national income , balance of international payments , and many other business indicators .
Such measures are essential to its job of presenting business and Government with the facts required to meet the objective of expanding business and improving the operation of the economy .
Contact
For further information contact Director , Office of Business Economics , U.S. Department of Commerce , Washington 25 , D.C. .
Printed material
Economic information is made available to businessmen and economists promptly through the monthly Survey Of Current Business and its weekly supplement .
This periodical , including weekly statistical supplements , is available for $4 per year from Commerce Field Offices or Superintendent of Documents , U.S. Government Printing Office , Washington 25 , D.C. .
Technical assistance to small business community
The Small Business Administration ( SBA ) provides guidance and advice on sources of technical information relating to small business management and research and development of products .
Small business management
Practical management problems and their suggested solutions are dealt with in a series of SBA publications .
These publications , written especially for the managers or owners of small businesses , indirectly aid in community development programs .
They are written by specialists in numerous types of business enterprises , cover a wide range of subjects , and are directed to the needs and interests of the small firm .
SBA offers Administrative Management Courses , which are designed to improve the management efficiency and `` know-how '' of small business concerns within a community .
SBA cosponsors these courses with educational institutions and community groups .
Through the SBA's Management Counseling Program , practical , personalized advice on sound management principles is available upon request to both prospective and established businessmen in a community .
One-day conferences covering some specific phase of business management , also part of the continuing activities of the Small Business Administration , aid community economic development programs .
These short , `` streamlined '' meetings usually are sponsored by local banks , Chambers of Commerce , trade associations , or other civic organizations .
Product research and development
Production specialists in SBA regional offices are available to help individual small business concerns with technical production problems .
Guidance and advice are available on new product research and development ; ;
new product potential ; ;
processing methods ; ;
product and market developments ; ;
new industrial uses for raw , semi-processed and waste , materials ; ;
and industrial uses for agricultural products .
SBA serves also as a clearing house for information on products and processes particularly adaptable for exploitation by small firms .
This may be helpful in improving the competitive position of established firms through diversification and expansion or through more economical utilization of plant capacity .
Production assistance
Production specialists are available in SBA regional offices to help individual small business concerns with technical production problems .
These problems frequently arise where a firm is making items for the Government not directly along the lines of its normal civilian business or where the Government specifications require operations that the firm did not understand when it undertook the contract .
Production assistance often takes the form of locating tools or materials which are urgently needed .
Advice is given also on problems of plant location and plant space .
Property sales assistance
The property sales assistance program is designed to assist small business concerns that may wish to buy property offered for sale by the Federal Government .
Under this program , property sales specialists in the Small Business Administration regional offices help small business concerns to locate Federal property for sale and insure that small firms have the opportunity to bid competitively for surplus personal and real property and certain natural resources , including timber from the national forests .
SBA works closely with the principal property disposal installations of the Federal Government in reviewing proposed sales programs and identifying those types of property that small business concerns are most likely to be interested in purchasing .
Proposed property sales of general interest to small business concerns are publicized through SBA regional news releases , and by `` flyers '' directed to the small business concerns .
Each SBA regional office also maintains a `` want '' list of surplus property , principally machinery and equipment , desired by small business concerns in its area .
When suitable equipment is located by the SBA representative , the small business concern is contacted and advised on when , where , and how to bid on such property .
Facilities inventory
Section 8-b-2 of the Small Business Act , as amended , authorizes the SBA to make a complete inventory of the productive facilities of small business concerns .
The Administration maintains a productive facilities inventory of small business industrial concerns that have voluntarily registered .
It is kept in each Regional office for the small firms within the region .
Purpose of this inventory is to include all eligible productive facilities in SBA's facilities register so that the small business concerns may have an opportunity to avail themselves of the services authorized by the Congress in establishing the Small Business Administration .
These services include procurement and technical assistance and notice of surplus sales and invitations to bid on Government contracts for products and services within the registrants' field of operations .
SBA can make complete facilities inventories of all small business concerns in labor surplus areas within budgetary and staff limitations .
Contact
For further information , contact Small Business Administration Regional Offices in Atlanta , Ga. ; ;
Boston , Mass. ; ;
Chicago , Ill. ; ;
Cleveland , Ohio ; ;
Dallas , Tex. ; ;
Denver , Colo. ; ;
Detroit , Mich. ; ;
Kansas City , Mo. ; ;
Los Angeles , Calif. ; ;
Minneapolis , Minn. ; ;
New York , N.Y. ; ;
Philadelphia , Pa. ; ;
Richmond , Va. ; ;
San Francisco , Calif. ; ;
and Seattle , Wash. .
Branch Offices are located in other large cities .
Printed material
Small Business Administration , What It Is , What It Does , SBA Services For Community Economic Development , and various other useful publications on currently important management , technical production , and marketing topics are available , on request , from Small Business Administration , Washington 25 , D.C. .
New Product Introduction For Small Business Owners , 30 cents ; ;
Developing And Selling New Products , 45 cents ; ;
U.S. Government Purchasing , Specifications , And Sales Directory , 60 cents , are available from the Superintendent of Documents , U.S. Government Printing Office , Washington 25 , D.C. .
Loans
to small business
SBA makes loans to individual small business firms , providing them with financing when it is not otherwise available through private lending sources on reasonable terms .
Many such loans have been made to establish small concerns or to aid in their growth , thereby contributing substantially to community development programs .
Loan policies
SBA loans , which may be made to small manufacturers , small business pools , wholesalers , retailers , service establishments and other small businesses ( when financing is not otherwise available to them on reasonable terms ) , are to finance business construction , conversion , or expansion ; ;
the purchase of equipment , facilities , machinery , supplies , or materials ; ;
or to supply working capital .
Evidence that other sources of financing are unavailable must be provided .
Types of loans
SBA business loans are of two types : `` participation '' and `` direct '' .
Participation loans are those made jointly by the SBA and banks or other private lending institutions .
Direct loans are those made by SBA alone .
To qualify for either type of loan , an applicant must be a small business or approved small business `` pool '' and must meet certain credit requirements .
A small business is defined as one which is independently owned and operated and which is not dominant in its field .
In addition , the SBA uses such criteria as number of employees and dollar volume of the business .
Credit requirements
The credit requirements stipulate that the applicant must have the ability to operate the business successfully and have enough capital in the business so that , with loan assistance from the SBA , it will be able to operate on a sound financial basis .
A proposed loan must be for sound purposes or sufficiently secured so as to assure a reasonable chance of repayment .
The record of past earnings and prospects for the future must indicate it has the ability to repay the loan out of current and anticipated income .
Loan amount
The amount which may be borrowed from the SBA depends on how much is required to carry out the intended purpose of the loan .
The maximum loan which SBA may make to any one borrower is $350,000 .
Business loans generally are repayable in regular installments -- usually monthly , including interest at the rate of 5-1/2 percent per annum on the unpaid balance -- and have a maximum maturity of 10 years ; ;
the term of loans for working capital is 6 years .
Contact
For further information , contact SBA Regional Offices in Atlanta , Ga. ; ;
Boston , Mass. ; ;
Chicago , Ill. ; ;
Cleveland , Ohio ; ;
Dallas , Tex. ; ;
Denver , Colo. ; ;
Detroit , Mich. ; ;
Kansas City , Mo. ; ;
Los Angeles , Calif. ; ;
Minneapolis , Minn. ; ;
New York , N.Y. ; ;
Philadelphia , Pa. ; ;
Richmond , Va. ; ;
San Francisco , Calif. ; ;
and Seattle , Wash. .
Branch Offices are located in other large cities .
Printed material
Small Business Administration , What It Is , What It Does ; ;
SBA Business Loans ; ;
and Small Business Pooling are available , on request , from Small Business Administration , Washington 25 , D.C. , and its regional offices .
To cooperatives
The Farm Credit Administration , an independent agency located within the Department of Agriculture , supervises and coordinates a cooperative credit system for agriculture .
The system is composed of three credit services , Federal Land Banks and National Farm Loan Associations , Federal Intermediate ( short-term ) Credit Banks , and Banks for Cooperatives .
This system provides long- and short-term credit to farmers and their cooperative marketing , purchasing , and business service organizations .
As a source of investment capital , the system is beneficial to local communities and encourages the development of industries in rural areas .
The credit provdied by the first two services in the system outlined above is primarily for general agricultural purposes .
The third credit service , Banks for Cooperatives , exists under authority of the Farm Credit Act of 1933 .
The Banks for Cooperatives were established to provide a permanent source of credit on a sound basis for farmers' cooperatives .
Types of loans
Three distinct classes of loans are made available to farmers' cooperatives by the Banks for Cooperatives : Commodity loans , operating capital loans , and facility loans .
Eligibility
To be eligible to borrow from a Bank for Cooperatives , a cooperative must be an association in which farmers act together in processing and marketing farm products , purchasing farm supplies , or furnishing farm business services , and must meet the requirements set forth in the Farm Credit Act of 1933 , as amended .
Interest rates
Interest rates are determined by the board of directors of the bank with the approval of the Farm Credit Administration .
Contact
For further information , contact the Bank for Cooperatives serving the region , or the Farm Credit Administration , Research and Information Division , Washington 25 , D.C. .
Printed material
Available , on request , from U.S. Department of Agriculture , Washington 25 , D.C. , are : Cooperative Farm Credit Can Assist In Rural Development ( Circular No. 44 ) , and The Cooperative Farm Credit System ( Circular No. 36-A ) .
Minerals exploration
To encourage exploration for domestic sources of minerals , the Office of Minerals Exploration ( OME ) of the U.S. Department of the Interior offers financial assistance to firms and individuals who desire to explore their properties or claims for 1 or more of the 32 mineral commodities listed in the OME regulations .
Requirements
This help is offered to applicants who ordinarily would not undertake the exploration under present conditions or circumstances at their sole expense and who are unable to obtain funds from commercial sources on reasonable terms .
Each applicant is required to own or have sufficient interest in the property to be explored .
The Government will contract with an eligible applicant to pay up to one-half of the cost of approved exploration work as it progresses .
The applicant pays the rest of the cost , but his own time spent on the work and charges for the use of equipment which he owns may be applied toward his share of the cost .
Repayment
Funds contributed by the Government are repaid by a royalty on production from the property .
If nothing is produced , there is no obligation to repay .
A 5-percent royalty is paid on any production during the period the contract is in effect ; ;
if the Government certifies that production may be possible from the property , the royalty obligation continues for the 10-year period usually specified in the contract or until the Government's contribution is repaid with interest .
The royalty applies to both principal and interest , but it never exceeds 5 percent .
Contact
Information , application forms , and assistance in filing may be obtained from the Office of Minerals Exploration , U.S. Department of the Interior , Washington 25 , D.C. , or from the appropriate regional office listed below .
In most of the less developed countries , however , such programing is at best inadequate and at worst nonexistent .
Only a very few of the more advanced ones , such as India and Pakistan , have developed systematic techniques of programing .
Others have so-called development plans , but some of these are little more than lists of projects collected from various ministries while others are statements of goals without analysis of the actions required to attain them .
Only rarely is attention given to accurate progress reports and evaluation .
We can help in the planning process
.
Neither growth nor a development program can be imposed on a country ; ;
it must express the nation's own will and goal .
Nevertheless , we can administer an aid program in such a manner as to promote the development of responsible programing .
First , we can encourage responsibility by establishing as conditions for assistance on a substantial and sustained scale the definition of objectives and the assessment of costs .
Second , we can make assistance for particular projects conditional on the consistency of such projects with the program .
Third , we can offer technical help in the formulation of programs for development which are adapted to the country's objectives and resources .
This includes assistance in -- assembling the basic economic , financial , technological , and educational information on which programing depends ; ;
surveying the needs and requirements over time of broad sectors of the economy , such as transport , agriculture , communication , industry , and power ; ;
designing the financial mechanisms of the economy in ways that will promote growth without inflation ; ;
and administrative practices which will make possible the more effective review and implementation of programs once established .
We must use common sense in applying conditions
.
The application of conditions in the allocation of aid funds cannot , of course , be mechanical .
It must be recognized that countries at different stages of development have very different capabilities of meeting such conditions .
To insist on a level of performance in programing and budgeting completely beyond the capabilities of the recipient country would result in the frustration of the basic objective of our development assistance to encourage more rapid growth .
In the more primitive areas , where the capacity to absorb and utilize external assistance is limited , some activities may be of such obvious priority that we may decide to support them before a well worked out program is available .
Thus , we might provide limited assistance in such fields as education , essential transport , communications , and agricultural improvement despite the absence of acceptable country programs .
In such a case , however , we would encourage the recipient country to get on with its programing task , supply it with substantial technical assistance in performing that task , and make it plain that an expansion or even a continuation of our assistance to the country's development was conditional upon programing progress being made .
At the other end of the spectrum , where the more advanced countries can be relied upon to make well thought through decisions as to project priorities within a consistent program , we should be prepared to depart substantially from detailed project approval as the basis for granting assistance and to move toward long-term support , in cooperation with other developed countries , of the essential foreign exchange requirements of the country's development program .
D .
Encouraging self-help
1 .
The reasons for stressing self-help
A systematic approach to development budgeting and programing is one important kind of self-help .
There are many others .
It is vitally important that the new U.S. aid program should encourage all of them , since the main thrust for development must come from the less developed countries themselves .
External aid can only be marginal , although the margin , as in the case of the Marshall plan , can be decisive .
External aid can be effective only if it is a complement to self-help .
U.S. aid , therefore , should increasingly be designed to provide incentives for countries to take the steps that only they themselves can take .
Aid advice is not interference
.
In establishing conditions of self-help , it is important that we not expect countries to remake themselves in our image .
Open societies can take many forms , and within very broad limits recipients must be free to set their own goals and to devise their own institutions to achieve those goals .
On the other hand , it is no interference with sovereignty to point out defects where they exist , such as that a plan calls for factories without power to run them , or for institutions without trained personnel to staff them .
Once we have made clear that we are genuinely concerned with a country's development potential , we can be blunt in suggesting the technical conditions that must be met for development to occur .
2 .
The range of self-help
The major areas of self-help are the following : ( A ) the effective mobilizing of resources .
This includes not only development programing , but also establishing tax policies designed to raise equitably resources for investment ; ;
fiscal and monetary policies designed to prevent serious inflation ; ;
and regulatory policies aimed to attract the financial and managerial resources of foreign investment and to prevent excessive luxury consumption by a few .
( B ) the reduction of dependence on external sources .
This includes foreseeing balance-of-payments crises , with adequate attention to reducing dependence on imports and adopting realistic exchange rates to encourage infant industries and spur exports .
It also includes providing for the training of nationals to operate projects after they are completed .
( C ) tapping the energies of the entire population .
For both economic and political reasons all segments of the population must be able to share in the growth of a country .
Otherwise , development will not lead to longrun stability .
( D ) honesty in government .
In many societies , what we regard as corruption , favoritism , and personal influence are so accepted as consistent with the mores of officialdom and so integral a part of routine administrative practice that any attempt to force their elimination will be regarded by the local leadership as not only unwarranted but unfriendly .
Yet an economy cannot get the most out of its resources if dishonesty , corruption , and favoritism are widespread .
Moreover , tolerance by us of such practices results in serious waste and diversion of aid resources and in the long run generates anti-American sentiment of a kind peculiarly damaging to our political interest .
Some of the most dramatic successes of Communism in winning local support can be traced to the identification -- correct or not -- of Communist regimes with personal honesty and pro-Western regimes with corruption .
A requirement of reasonably honest administration may be politically uncomfortable in the short run , but it is politically essential in the long run .
3 .
U.S. position on self-help
The United States can use its aid as an incentive to self-help by responding with aid on a sustained basis , tailored to priority needs , to those countries making serious efforts in self-help .
In many instances it can withhold or limit its aid to countries not yet willing to make such efforts .
There are other countries where , with skillful diplomacy , we may be able by our aid to give encouragement to those groups in government which would like to press forward with economic and social reform measures to promote growth .
Governments are rarely monolithic .
But there will be still other countries where , despite the inadequacy of the level of self-help , we shall deem it wise , for political or military reasons , to give substantial economic assistance .
Even in these cases we should promote self-help by making it clear that our supporting assistance is subject to reduction and ultimately to termination .
E .
Encouraging a long-term approach
1 .
Development requires a long-term approach
.
The most fundamental concept of the new approach to economic aid is the focusing of our attention , our resources , and our energies on the effort to promote the economic and social development of the less developed countries .
This is not a short-run goal .
To have any success in this effort , we must ourselves view it as an enterprise stretching over a considerable number of years , and we must encourage the recipients of our aid to view it in the same fashion .
Most of our aid will go to those nearing self-sufficiency
.
How long it will take to show substantial success in this effort will vary greatly from country to country .
In several significant cases , such as India , a decade of concentrated effort can launch these countries into a stage in which they can carry forward their own economic and social progress with little or no government-to-government assistance .
These cases in which light is already visible at the other end of the tunnel are ones which over the next few years will absorb the bulk of our capital assistance .
Gradually others will move up to the same level
.
The number of countries thus favorably situated is small , but their peoples constitute over half of the population of the underdeveloped world .
Meantime , over the decade of the sixties , we can hope that many other countries will ready themselves for the big push into self-sustaining growth .
In still others which are barely on the threshold of the transition into modernity , the decade can bring significant progress in launching the slow process of developing their human resources and their basic services to the point where an expanded range of developmental activities is possible .
Aid is a long-term process
.
The whole program must be conceived of as an effort , stretching over a considerable number of years , to alter the basic social and economic conditions in the less developed world .
It must be recognized as a slow-acting tool designed to prevent political and military crises such as those recently confronted in Laos and Cuba .
It is not a tool for dealing with these crises after they have erupted .
2 .
The specific reasons for a long-term approach
( A ) the need to budget a period of years .
Many of the individual projects for which development assistance is required call for expenditures over lengthy periods .
Dams , river development schemes , transportation networks , educational systems require years to construct .
Moreover , on complex projects , design work must be completed and orders for machinery and equipment placed months or even years before construction can commence .
Thus , as a development program is being launched , commitments and obligations must be entered into in a given year which may exceed by twofold or threefold the expenditures to be made in that year .
The capital expansion programs of business firms involve multi-year budgeting and the same is true of country development programs .
( B ) the need to plan investment programs .
More importantly , several of the more advanced of the less developed countries have found through experience that they must plan their own complex investment programs for at least 5 years forward and tentatively for considerably more than that if they are to be sure that the various interdependent activities involved are all to take place in the proper sequence .
Without such forward planning , investment funds are wasted because manufacturing facilities are completed before there is power to operate them or before there is transport to service them ; ;
or a skilled labor force is trained before there are plants available in which they can be employed .
( C ) the need to allocate country resources .
Most important of all , the less developed countries must be persuaded to take the necessary steps to allocate and commit their own resources .
They must be induced to establish the necessary tax , fiscal , monetary , and regulatory policies .
They must be persuaded to adopt the other necessary self-help measures which are described in the preceding section .
The taking of these steps involves tough internal policy decisions .
Moreover , once these steps are taken , they may require years to make themselves felt .
They must , therefore , be related to long-range development plans .
3 .
Providing an incentive
If the less developed countries are to be persuaded to adopt a long-term approach , the United States , as the principal supplier of external aid , must be prepared to give long-term commitments .
In this , as in so many aspects of our development assistance activities , the incentive effects of the posture we take are the most important ones .
The extent to which we can persuade the less developed countries to appraise their own resources , to set targets toward which they should be working , to establish in the light of this forward perspective the most urgent priorities for their immediate attention , and to do the other things which they must do to help themselves , all on a realistic long-term basis , will depend importantly on the incentives we place before them .
If they feel that we are taking a long-term view of their problems and are prepared to enter into reasonably long-term association with them in their development activities , they will be much more likely to undertake the difficult tasks required .
Perhaps the most important incentive for them will be clear evidence that where other countries have done this kind of home work we have responded with long-term commitments .
You have heard him tell these young people that during his almost 50 years of service in the Congress he has seen the Kaisers and the Hitlers and the Mussolinis , the Tojos and Stalins and Khrushchevs , come and go and that we are passing on to them the freest Nation that mankind has ever known .
Then I have seen the pride of country well in the eyes of these young people .
So , I say , Mr. Speaker , God bless you and keep you for many years not only for this body but for the United States of America and the free world .
You remember the words of President Kennedy a week or so ago , when someone asked him when he was in Canada , and Dean Rusk was in Europe , and Vice President Johnson was in Asia , `` Who is running the store '' ? ?
And he said , `` The same fellow who has been running it , Sam Rayburn '' .
General leave to extend
Mr. McCormack .
Mr. Speaker , I ask unanimous consent that all Members who desire to do so may extend their remarks at this point in the record ; ;
and also that they may have 5 legislative days in which to extend their remarks .
The speaker pro tempore .
Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from Massachusetts ? ?
There was no objection .
Remarks of Hon. Joseph P. Addabbo of New York
Mr. Addabbo .
It is notably significant that so many Members from both sides of the aisle express their respect and admiration for our beloved Speaker , the Honorable Sam Rayburn .
I purposely refrained from adding the usual distinction of saying that he was from the State of Texas .
I did so because I agree with so many here today , that he is the beloved Speaker of all the people of the United States .
For the dignity , the influence , and the power of the legislative branch of our Government -- it is a privilege for us to do honor to this great man who represents not alone his own district but all the people of our country .
To honor him is to honor ourselves .
In this my first year as a Member of this body I have experienced many memorable moments .
Many of these experiences are so important that they will be cherished forever by me .
And , like many of you here present , I hold as the highlight of all , the occasion of my first meeting with the honorable Speaker of the House .
At that time , he afforded me the courtesy of his busy workday for such length as I may need , to speak about my background , my hopes , my views on various national and local topics , and any problems that I may have been vexed with at the time .
He was fatherly in his handling of all subjects with me and tremendously wise in his counsel .
In conclusion , he wished me well -- and as kindly and humbly as this humane gentleman could express himself , he asked to be remembered to my wife and children .
In my short period here I believe that at no time has he been otherwise than the most popular man on both sides of the aisle .
He is most effective in the ordinary business of the House , and in the legislative accomplishments of this session , he easily rose to great occasion -- even at the height of unpleasantness and exciting legislative struggle -- and as the Nation witnessed these contests , he rose , even as admitted by those who differed with him , to the proportions of a hero and a noble partisan .
I am highly privileged today to commemorate the brilliant career of this parliamentary giant .
He will ever be my example as a true statesman ; ;
one who is thoroughly human , who affects no dignity , and who is endowed with real ability , genuine worth , and sterling honesty -- all dedicated to secure the best interests of the country he has loved and served so long .
May the Divine Speaker in Heaven bless this country with Sam Rayburn's continued service here for years to come .
Remarks of Hon. Wayne L. Hays of Ohio
Mr. Hays .
It is a matter of deep personal satisfaction for me to add my voice to the great and distinguished chorus of my colleagues in this paean of praise , respect , and affection for Speaker Sam Rayburn .
In this hour of crisis , the wisdom , the dedication , the stabilizing force that he represents in current American government is an almost indispensable source of strength .
He has become in this half century the grand old man of American history .
It seems to me that the prayers of the whole free world must rise like some vast petition to Providence that Sam Rayburn's vigor and his life remain undiminished through the coming decades .
Here briefly in this humble tribute I have sought for some simple and succinct summation that would define the immense service of this patriot to his country .
But the task is beyond me because I hold it impossible to compress in a sentence or two the complicated and prodigious contributions Sam Rayburn has made as an individual , as a legislator , as a statesman and as a leader and conciliator , to the majestic progress of this Nation .
It happens that I am a legislator from Ohio and that I feel deeply about the needs , the aspirations , the interests of my district and my State .
What Sam Rayburn's life proves to us all is the magnificent lesson in political science that one can devotedly and with absolute dedication represent the seemingly provincial interests of one's own community , one's own district , one's own State , and by that help himself represent even better the sweep and scope of the problems of this the greatest nation of all time .
For Sam Rayburn never forgot Bonham , his home community , and he never forgot Texas .
In the same way I like to think we owe our loyalty as legislators to our community , our district , our State .
And , if we follow the Rayburn pattern , as consciously or by an instinctual political sense I like to think I have followed it , then the very nature of our loyalty to our own immediate areas must necessarily be reflected in the devotion of our services to our country .
For what Sam Rayburn's life in this House teaches us is that loyalty and character are not divisive and there is no such thing as being for your country and neglecting your district .
There is no such thing as being diligent about national affairs but indifferent about home needs .
The two are as one .
This may not be the greatest but it certainly comes close to being the greatest lesson Sam Rayburn's career , up to this hour , teaches all of us who would aspire to distinction in political life under our processes of government .
More than that , Sam Rayburn is the very living symbol of an iron-clad integrity so powerful in his nature and so constantly demonstrated that he can count some of his best friends in the opposition .
Through the most rancorous battles of political controversy and the most bitterly fought national and presidential campaigns his character shines as an example of dignity and honesty , forthrightness and nobility .
Sam Rayburn has never had to look back at any of his most devastating fights and ever feel ashamed of his conduct as a combatant under fire or his political manners in the heat of conflicting ambitions .
This means much to the American tradition .
It is an answer in its way , individual and highly dramatic , to the charge that the democratic process is necessarily vicious in its campaign characteristics .
And the name Rayburn is one of the most dominant in the history of American politics for the last half century .
It is , I insist , hard to define the Rayburn contribution to our political civilization because it is so massive and so widespread and so complicated , and because it goes so deep .
But this we know : Here is a great life that in every area of American politics gives the American people occasion for pride and that has invested the democratic process with the most decent qualities of honor , decency , and self-respect .
I pray to God that he may be spared to us for many years to come for this is an influence the United States and the whole world can ill afford to lose .
Remarks of Hon. Melvin Price of Illinois
Mr. Price .
All but two of my nine terms in the House of Representatives has been served under the Speakership of Sam Rayburn .
Of this I am proud .
I have a distinct admiration for this man we honor today because of the humility with which he carries his greatness .
And Sam Rayburn is a great man -- one who will go down in American history as a truly great leader of the Nation .
He will be considered not only great among his contemporaries , but as great among all the Americans who have played a part in the country's history since the beginning .
I pay my personal tribute to Sam Rayburn , stalwart Texan and great American , not only because today he establishes a record of having served as Speaker of the House of Representatives more than twice as long as Henry Clay , but because of the contributions he has made to the welfare of the people of the Nation during his almost half century of service as a Member of Congress .
Speaker Rayburn has not limited his leadership as a statesman to his direction of the House in the Speaker's chair .
He had an outstanding record as a legislator since the start of his career in the House in 1913 , the 63d Congress .
No one has sponsored more progressive and important legislation than has Sam Rayburn .
He is the recognized `` father '' of the Rural Electrification Administration and the Security and Exchange Commission .
But to run the gauntlet of the programs Sam Rayburn brought into being through his legislative efforts would fill the pages of today's Record .
No greater pleasure has come to me in my own service in this House than to be present today to participate in this tribute to this great Speaker , this great legislator , this great Texan , this great American .
My sincere wish is that he continues to add to this record he sets here today .
Remarks of Hon. John S. Monagan of Connecticut
Mr. Monagan .
Sam Rayburn is one of the greatest American public figures in the history of our country and I consider that I have been singly honored in the privilege of knowing Sam Rayburn and sharing with him the rights and obligations of a Member of the House of Representatives in the Congress of the United States .
Others may speak of Speaker Rayburn's uniquely long and devoted service ; ;
of his championship of many of the progressive social measures which adorn our statute books today , and of his cooperation in times of adversity with Presidents of both of our major parties in helping to pilot the Ship of State through the shoals of today's stormy international seas .
I prefer to speak , however , of Sam Rayburn , the person , rather than Sam Rayburn , the American institution .
Although Sam Rayburn affects a gruff exterior in many instances , nevertheless he is fundamentally a man of warm heart and gentle disposition .
No one could be more devoted than he to the American Congress as an institution and more aware of its historical significance in the political history of the world , and I shall never forget his moving talks , delivered in simple yet eloquent words , upon the meaning of our jobs as Representatives in the operation of representative government and their importance in the context of today's assault upon popular government .
Above all , he is a person to whom a fledgling Representative can go to discuss the personal and professional problems which inevitably confront a new Congressman .
In this role of father confessor , he has always been most characteristic and most helpful .
On September 16 , Sam Rayburn will have served as Speaker twice as long as any predecessor and I am proud to join with others in marking this date , and in expressing my esteem for that notable American , Sam Rayburn .
Origin of state automobile practices .
The practice of state-owned vehicles for use of employees on business dates back over forty years .
At least one state vehicle was in existence in 1917 .
The state presently owns 389 passenger vehicles in comparison to approximately 200 in 1940 .
The automobile maintenance unit , or motor pool , came into existence in 1942 and has been responsible for centralized maintenance and management of state-owned transportation since that time .
The motor pool has made exceptional progress in automotive management including establishment of cost billing systems , records keeping , analyses of vehicle use , and effecting economies in vehicle operation .
Cars were operated in 1959 for an average $.027 per mile .
Purchase of state vehicles is handled similarly to all state purchases .
Unit prices to the state are considerably lower than to the general public because of quantity purchases and no payment of state sales or federal excise taxes .
Vehicle purchase , assignment and use policies .
The legislature's role in policy determination concerning state-owned vehicles has been confined almost exclusively to appropriating funds for vehicles .
The meaningful policies governing the purchase , assignment , use and management of state vehicles have been shaped by the state's administrative officers .
Meaningful policies include : ( A ) kinds of cars the state should own , ( B ) when cars should be traded , ( C ) the need and assignment of vehicles , ( D ) use of cars in lieu of mileage allowances , ( E ) employees taking cars home , and ( F ) need for liability insurance on state automobiles .
A review of these policies indicates : ( 1 )
The state purchases and assigns grades of cars according to need and position status of driver and use of vehicle .
( 2 )
The purchase of compact ( economy ) cars is being made currently on a test basis .
( 3 )
Cars are traded mostly on a three-year basis in the interest of economy .
( 4 )
The factors governing need and assignment of cars are flexible according to circumstances .
( 5 )
Unsuccessful efforts have been made to replace high mileage allowances with state automobiles .
( 6 )
It is reasonably economical for the state to have drivers garage state cars at their homes .
( 7 )
The state has recently undertaken liability insurance for drivers of state cars .
Automobile practices in other states .
A survey of practices and/or policies in other states concerning assignment and use of state automobiles reveals several points for comparison with Rhode Island's practices .
Forty-seven states assign or provide vehicles for employees on state business .
Two other states provide vehicles , but only with legislative approval .
States which provide automobiles for employees assign them variously to the agency , the individual , or to a central pool .
Twenty-six states operate a central motor pool for acquisition , allocation and/or maintenance of state-owned vehicles .
Nineteen states report laws , policies or regulations for assigning state vehicles in lieu of paying mileage allowances .
Of these states the average `` change-over '' point ( at which a car is substituted for allowances ) is 13,200 miles per year .
Mileage allowances .
Mileage allowances for state employees are of two types : ( A ) actual mileage and ( B ) fixed monthly allowances .
Actual mileage allowances are itemized reimbursements allowed employees for the use of personally-owned vehicles on state business at the rate of $.07 per mile .
Fixed monthly allowances are reimbursements for the same purpose except on a non-itemized basis .
Both allowances are governed by conditions and restrictions set forth in detail in the state's Travel Regulations .
Rhode Island's reimburseable rate of $.07 per mile for use of personally-owned cars compares favorably with other states' rates .
The average of states' rates is $.076 per mile .
Rhode Island's rate of $.07 per mile is considerably lower than reimburseable rates in the federal government and in industry nationally which approximate a $.09 per mile average .
Actual mileage allowances are well-administered and not unduly expensive for the state .
The travel regulations , requirements and procedures governing reimbursement are controlled properly and not overly restrictive .
Fixed monthly allowances are a controversial subject .
They have a great advantage in ease of audit time and payment .
However , they lend themselves to abuse and inadequate control measures .
Flat payments over $50 per month are more expensive to the state than the assignment of state-owned vehicles .
Travel allowances .
Travel allowances , including subsistence , have been revised by administrative officials recently and compare favorably with other states' allowances .
With few exceptions travelers on state business are allowed actual travel expenses and $15 per day subsistence .
Travel allowances are well-regulated and pose little problem in administration and/or audit control .
Origin of state automobile practices
general background .
It is difficult to pinpoint the time of origin of the state purchasing automobiles for use of employees in Rhode Island .
Few records are available concerning the subject prior to 1940 .
Those that are available shed little light .
The Registry of Motor Vehicles indicates that at least one state automobile was registered as far back as 1917 .
It should be enough to say that the practice of the state buying automobiles is at least forty years old .
The best reason that can be advanced for the state adopting the practice was the advent of expanded highway construction during the 1920s and '30s .
At that time highway engineers traveled rough and dirty roads to accomplish their duties .
Using privately-owned vehicles was a personal hardship for such employees , and the matter of providing state transportation was felt perfectly justifiable .
Once the principle was established , the increase in state-owned vehicles came rapidly .
And reasons other than employee need contributed to the growth .
Table 1 immediately below shows the rate of growth of vehicles and employees .
This rate of increase does not signify anything in itself .
It does not indicate loose management , ineffective controls or poor policy .
But it does show that automobiles have increased steadily over the years and in almost the same proportion to the increase of state employees .
In the past twenty years the ratio of state-owned automobiles per state employees has varied from 1 to 22 then to 1 to 23 now .
Whether there were too few automobiles in 1940 or too many now is problematical .
The fact is simply that state-owned vehicles have remained in practically the same proportion as employees to use them .
History and operation of the motor pool .
While the origin of state-owned automobiles may be obscured , subsequent developments concerning the assignment , use , and management of state automobiles can be related more clearly .
Prior to 1942 , automobiles were the individual responsibility of the agency to which assigned .
This responsibility included all phases of management .
It embraced determining when to purchase and when to trade vehicles , who was to drive , when and where repairs were to be made , where gasoline and automobile services were to be obtained and other allied matters .
In 1942 , however , the nation was at war .
Gasoline and automobile tires were rationed commodities .
The state was confronted with transportation problems similar to those of the individual .
It met these problems by the creation of the state automobile maintenance unit ( more popularly called the motor pool ) , a centralized operation for the maintenance and control of all state transportation .
The motor pool then , as now , had headquarter facilities in Providence and other garages located throughout the state .
It was organizationally the responsibility of the Department of Public Works and was financed on a rotary fund basis with each agency of government contributing to the pool's operation .
In 1951 the pool's operation was transferred to the newly-created Department of Administration , an agency established as the central staff and auxiliary department of the state government .
The management of state-owned vehicles since that time has been described in a recent report in the following manner : ``
Under this new management considerable progress appears to have been made .
The agencies of government are now billed for the actual cost of services provided to each passenger car rather than the prior uniform charge for all cars .
Whereas the maintenance rotary fund had in the past sustained losses considerably beyond expectations , the introduction of the cost-billing system plus other control refinements has resulted in keeping the fund on a proper working basis .
One indication of the merits of the new management is found in the fact that during the period 1951-1956 , while total annual mileage put on the vehicles increased 35% , the total maintenance cost increased only 11% .
``
In order to further refine the management of passenger vehicles , on July 1 , 1958 , the actual title to every vehicle was transferred , by Executive Order , to the Division of Methods , Research and Office Services .
The objective behind this action was to place in one agency the responsibility for the management , assignment , and replacement of all vehicles .
( Note : So far as State Police cars are concerned , only their replacement is under this division ) .
This tied in closely with the current attempt to upgrade state-owned cars to the extent that vehicles are not retained beyond the point where maintenance costs ( in light of depreciation ) become excessive .
Moreover , it allows the present management to reassign vehicles so that mileage will be more uniformly distributed throughout the fleet ; ;
for example , if one driver puts on 22,000 miles per year and another driver 8,000 miles per year , their cars will be switched so that both cars will have 30,000 miles after two years , rather than 44,000 miles ( and related higher maintenance costs ) and 16,000 miles respectively '' .
The motor pool is a completely centralized and mechanized operation .
It handles all types of vehicle maintenance , but concentrates more on `` service station activities '' than on extensive vehicle repairs .
It contracts with outside repair garages for much of the latter work .
Where the pool excels is in its compilation of maintenance and cost-data studies and analyses .
Pool records reveal in detail the cost per mile and miles per gallon of each vehicle , the miles traveled in one year or three years , the periods when vehicle costs become excessive , and when cars should be traded for sound economies .
From this , motor pool personnel develop other meaningful and related data .
In 1959-60 , vehicles averaged an operating cost of $.027 per mile .
Based on this figure and considering depreciation costs of vehicles , pool personnel have determined that travel in excess of 10,000 miles annually is more economical by state car than by payment of allowances for use of personally-owned vehicles .
They estimate further that with sufficient experience and when cost-data of compact cars is compiled , the break-even point may be reduced to 7,500 miles of travel per year .
Table 2 shows operating cost data of state vehicles selected at random .
One matter of concern to the complete effectiveness of pool operations is the lack of adequate central garage facilities .
Present pool quarters at two locations in Providence are crowded , antiquated and , in general , make for inefficient operation in terms of dispersement of personnel and duplication of such operational needs as stock and repair equipment .
Good facilities would be a decided help to pool operations and probably reduce vehicle costs even more .
Purchasing practices .
The purchase of state-owned vehicles is handled in the same manner as all other purchases of the state .
Requests are made by the motor pool along with any necessary cooperation from the agencies to which assignments of cars will be made .
Bids are evaluated by the Division of Purchases with the assistance of pool staff , and awards for the purchase of the automobiles are made to the lowest responsible bidders .
Unit prices for state vehicles are invariably lower than to the general public .
The reasons are obvious : ( 1 ) the state is buying in quantity , and ( 2 ) it has no federal excise or state sales tax to pay .
Until 1958 the state was also entitled to a special type of manufacturers' discount through the dealers .
In that ownership of all vehicles rests with the state motor pool , cars are paid for with funds appropriated to the agencies but transferred to the rotary fund mentioned earlier .
This is a normal governmental procedure which reflects more accurately cost-accounting principles .
The assignment and use of vehicles after purchase is another matter to be covered in detail later .
Vehicle purchase , assignment , and use policies
Probably the most important of all matters for review are the broad administrative policies governing the purchase , assignment , use , and management of state vehicles .
The legislature's role in policy determination in this area for years has been confined almost solely to the amount of funds appropriated annually for the purchase and operation of vehicles .
The more meaningful policies have been left to the judgment of the chief administrative officer of the state -- the Director of Administration .
The Rhode Island property tax
There was a time some years ago when local taxation by the cities and towns was sufficient to support their own operations and a part of the cost of the state government as well .
For many years a state tax on cities and towns was paid by the several municipalities to the state from the proceeds of the general property tax .
This tax was discontinued in 1936 .
Since that time the demands of the citizens for new and expanded services have placed financial burdens on the state which could not have been foreseen in earlier years .
At the same time there has been an upgrading and expansion of municipal services as well .
Thus , there has come into being a situation in which the state must raise all of its own revenues and , in addition , must give assistance to its local governments .
This financial assistance from the state has become necessary because the local governments themselves found the property tax , or at least at the rates then existing , insufficient for their requirements .
Consequently there have developed several forms of grants-in-aid and shared taxes , as well as the unrestricted grant to local governments for general purposes whose adoption accompanied the introduction of a sales tax at the state level .
Notwithstanding state aid , the local governments are continuing to seek additional revenue of their own by strengthening the property tax .
This is being done both by the revaluation of real property and by seeking out forms of personal property hitherto neglected or ignored .
Taxation of tangible movable property in Rhode Island has been generally of a `` hands off '' nature due possibly to several reasons : ( 1 ) local assessors , in the main , are not well paid and have inadequate office staffs , ( 2 ) the numerous categories of this component of personal property make locating extremely difficult , and ( 3 ) the inexperience of the majority of assessors in evaluating this type of property .
Problems of taxing personal property .
Among the many problems in the taxing of personal property , and of movable tangible property in particular , two are significant : ( 1 ) situs , ( 2 ) fair and equitable assessment of value .
These problems are not local to Rhode Island , but are recognized as common to all states .
Situs of property .
Although the laws of the various states , in general , specify the situs of property , i.e. , residence or domicile of the owner , or location of the property , the exceptions regarding boats , airplanes , mobile homes , etc. , seem to add to the uncertainty of the proper origination point for assessment .
Rhode Island law specifies that all real estate is taxable in the town in which it is situated .
It also provides for the taxation of all personal property , belonging to inhabitants of the state , both tangible and intangible , and the tangible personal property of non-residents in this state .
In defining personal property , it specifically mentions `` all ships or vessels , at home or abroad '' .
Intangible property is taxable wherever the owner has a place of abode the greater portion of the year .
Although a similar situs for tangible property is mentioned in the statute , this is cancelled out by the provision that definite kinds of property `` and all other tangible property '' situated or being in any town is taxable where the property is situated .
This would seem to fix the tax situs of all movable personal property at its location on December 31 .
Both boats and aircraft would fall within this category , as well as motor vehicles .
The location of the latter now is determined for tax purposes at the time of registration , and it is now accepted practice to consider a motor vehicle as being situated where it is garaged .
Obviously , it would be impossible to determine where every vehicle might be on the 31st day of December .
In view of the acceptance accorded the status of motor vehicles for tax purposes , in the absence of any specific provision it would seem entirely consistent to apply the same interpretation to boats or aircraft .
A recent example of this problem is the flying of six airplanes , on December 31 , 1960 , from the Newport Airpark in Middletown , to the North Central Airport in Smithfield .
This situation resulted in both towns claiming the tax , and probably justifiably .
Middletown bases its claim on the general provision of the law that `` all rateable property , both tangible and intangible , shall be taxed to the owner thereof in the town in which such owner shall have had his actual place of abode for the larger portion of the twelve ( 12 ) months next preceding the first day of April in each year '' .
The Smithfield tax assessor , in turn , claims the tax under the provision of law `` and all other tangible personal property situated or being in any town , in or upon any place of storage shall be taxed to such person in the town where said property is situated '' .
Assessment of value .
This problem of fair and equitable assessment of value is a difficult one to solve in that the determination of fair valuation is dependent on local assessors , who in general are non-professional and part-time personnel taking an individualistic approach to the problem .
This accounts for the wide variance in assessment practices of movable tangible property in the various municipalities in Rhode Island .
This condition will undoubtedly continue until such time as a state uniform system of evaluation is established , or through mutual agreement of the local assessing officials for a method of standard assessment practice to be adopted .
The Rhode Island Public Expenditure Council in its publication once commented : ``
The most realistic way of facing up to this problem would be to have the State take over full responsibility for assessing all taxable property .
An adequately staffed and equipped State assessing office could apply uniform methods and standards which would go far toward producing equitable assessments on all properties throughout the State .
A single statewide assessing unit would eliminate the differences and complications that are inherent in a system of 39 different and independent assessing units '' .
The Institute of Public Administration , in its report to the State Fiscal Study Commission in 1959 , recommended `` consolidating and centralizing all aspects of property tax administration in a single state agency professionally organized and equipped for the job '' .
The resulting setup , it was declared , `` would be similar to that which is in successful operation in a number of metropolitan counties as large or larger than Rhode Island '' .
Practices in Rhode Island .
To determine the practice and attitude of municipal governments concerning tangible movable property , a questionnaire was sent to all local government assessors or boards of assessors in Rhode Island .
The replies from each individual town are not given in detail because the questions asked the personal opinion of the several assessors and are not necessarily the established policy of the town in each case .
There are legitimate reasons for differences of opinion among the assessors as a whole and among the public officials in each town .
These opinions of the assessors are of significance in indicating what their thinking seems to be at the present time .
In reply to a question of whether they now tax boats , airplanes and other movable property excluding automobiles , nineteen said that they did and twenty that they did not .
The wording of the question was quite general and may have been subject to different interpretations .
One assessor checked boats only , another trailers and tractors , one mentioned house trailers , and two others referred to trailers without specifying the type .
In two cases , airplanes only were indicated .
It is difficult to tabulate exactly what was meant in each individual situation , but the conclusion may be drawn that 21 towns do not assess movable personal property , and of the remainder only certain types are valued for tax purposes .
Boats were indicated specifically by only one of the five towns known to tax boats .
It would seem , then , that movable property and equipment is not taxed as a whole but that certain types are taxed in towns where this is bound to be expedient for that particular kind of personal property .
So few answered the question relating to their efforts to assess movable property that the results are inconclusive .
Only four towns indicated that they made any more than a normal effort to list property of this kind .
Of greater interest is a question as to whether movable property was assessed according to its location or ownership .
Fifteen stated that it was according to location , four by residence of the owner , and nineteen did not answer .
Twenty-seven assessors stated that they were in favor of improved means for assessing movable personal property , and only five were opposed .
Seven others expressed no opinion .
On this point there was fairly general agreement that assessors would like to do more than they are doing now .
It is not clear , however , whether they are thinking of all movable property or only of boats , trailers , aircraft or certain other types of personal property whose assessment would be advantageous to their particular towns .
Another question that was asked of the assessors was whether they favored the assessment of movable property at its location or at the residence of the owner .
Eighteen voted for assessment by the town in which it is located and eleven preferred assessment by the town in which the owner resides .
Ten others made no reply .
Of those who have an opinion , it seems that assessment by location is preferred .
There was one vote for location being the place where the property is situated for the greater portion of the twelve months preceding the assessment date .
To summarize , it may be said that there is no one prevailing practice in Rhode Island with respect to the taxation of movable property , that assessors would like to see an improvement , and of those who have an opinion , that assessment by the town of location is preferred on the basis of their present knowledge .
The need for greater knowledge is evident from their replies .
Boats as personal property
taxing of boats .
Interest has been shown for a number of years by local assessors in the possibility of taxing boats .
Assessors in Rhode Island are charged not only with placing a valuation upon real and personal property , but they also have the responsibility to raise by a tax `` a sum not less than nor more than '' a specified amount as ordered by a city council or financial town meeting .
It has been obvious to the assessors , particularly those in shore communities , that boats comprise the largest category of tangible personal property which they have been unable to reach .
Through their professional organization , the Rhode Island Tax Officials Association the question of taxing boats long has been debated and discussed .
No satisfactory solution has been found , but this is due more to the difficulties inherent in the problem than to a lack of interest or diligence on the part of the assessors .
It has been estimated that the value of boats in Rhode Island waters is something in excess of fifty million dollars , excluding commercial boats .
It is obvious that this is a potential and lucrative source of revenue for the assessors of those towns where a substantial amount of such property would be subject to taxation .
It is known that at least five towns ( Barrington , Bristol , Narragansett , Newport and Westerly ) place some value on some boats for tax purposes .
However , few are taxed , and the owners and location of most boats are unknown to the assessors on the date of assessment of town valuations .
No one really knows how many boats there actually are or what their aggregate value may be .
Slightly more than 5,000 boats were registered with the Coast Guard prior to the recent passage of the state boating law .
Only a few more than 10,000 boats had been registered with the Division of Harbors and Rivers at the end of the 1960 boating season , but many had been taken out of the water early when the threat of a hurricane brought the season to an early close .
The assessors' association , meeting at Narragansett in September 1960 , devoted its session to a discussion of the boat problem .
Local industry's investment in Rhode Island was the big story in 1960's industrial development effort .
Fifty-two companies started or committed themselves to new plant construction , totaling 1,418,000 square feet and representing an investment of $11,900,000 ; ;
a new post-World War 2 , record .
With minor exceptions , this expansion was instituted either by firms based in Rhode Island or out-of-state manufacturers already operating here .
What made these new location figures particularly impressive was the fact that although 1960 was a year of mild business recession throughout the nation , Rhode Island scored marked progress in new industry , new plants , and new jobs .
Of the major expansions in 1960 , three were financed under the R. I. Industrial Building Authority's 100% guaranteed mortgage plan : Collyer Wire , Leesona Corporation , and American Tube & Controls .
Leading firms that arranged their own financing included Speidel Corporation , Cornell-Dubilier , Photek , Inc. Division of Textron , Narragansett Gray Iron Foundry , W. R. Cobb Company , and Mays Manufacturing Company .
Expansion and relocation of industry in Rhode Island is the direct responsibility of the Development Council's Industrial Division , and the figures quoted above indicate a successful year's operation .
Industrial Division personnel worked with 54 out-of-state and 97 Rhode Island concerns during 1960 , many of whom are still interested in a Rhode Island location .
They are conscious of this state's new feeling of optimism and assurance and are definitely impressed by the number of new plants and construction projects in Rhode Island .
Aids to small business
Although much of the Industrial Division's promotional effort is devoted to securing new locations and expansions by major industries , small business is also afforded considerable attention .
Our Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce carries on a vigorous program , directly aimed at solving and expediting the problems of manufacturers in the lower employment categories .
A primary function is the operation of a Government Bid Center , which receives bids daily from the Federal Government's principal purchasing agencies .
Assistance is rendered to interested Rhode Island businessmen concerning interpretation of bid invitations , where to obtain specifications , and follow-ups concerning qualification .
During the past year , 10,517 government bid invitations were received and 4,427 procurement leads were mailed to Rhode Island manufacturers .
In addition , the Office's domestic trade program provided consultant services to those seeking information on establishment of new businesses ; ;
how and where to apply for financial assistance ; ;
details on marketing ; ;
information concerning patents , copyrights and trade marks , availability of technical reports , and other subjects of interest to small business .
The Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce is also active in the field of international trade , assisting Rhode Island firms in developing and enlarging markets abroad .
This office cooperates with the U. S. Department of Commerce in giving statewide coverage to services which include : statistics on markets abroad ; ;
locating foreign agents , buyers , distributors , etc. ; ;
information on foreign and domestic import duties and regulations , licensing , investments , and establishing of branch representatives or plants abroad , and documentary requirements concerning export shipments and arrangements for payment .
During the year 1960 , this office supplied 954 visitors with information related to foreign and domestic commerce , and made 73 field visits .
Advertising program
Our media advertising continued , during 1960 , its previous effective program that stressed such specifics as 100% financing , plant availabilities , and location advantages .
We also continued to run a series of ads featuring endorsement of Rhode Island by industrialists who had recently established new plants here .
To reach a still greater audience of location-minded manufacturers , our industrial advertising budget for the fiscal year was increased from $32,000 to $40,000 , and the Industrial Building Authority's financial participation was upped from $17,000 to $20,000 .
Newspaper advertising was mainly concentrated in the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal ( Eastern and Midwestern editions ) which averaged two prominent ads per month , and to a lesser degree the New York Herald Tribune and , for the west coast , the Los Angeles Times and the Wall Street Journal ( Pacific Coast edition ) .
In addition to the regular schedule , advertisements were run for maximum impact in special editions of the New York Times , Boston Herald , American Banker , Electronic News and , for local promotion , the Providence Sunday Journal .
Magazine advertising included Management Methods , The New Englander , U. S. Investor , and Plant Location .
The direct mail campaign consisted of 3 intra-state mailings of 1680 letters each and 6 out-of-state directed to electronics , plastics , pharmaceutical , and business machine manufacturers , and to publishers .
These totaled 6,768 pieces of correspondence .
The 1960 advertising campaign brought a total of 239 inquiries ; ;
164 from media and 75 from direct mail .
Two hundred and nineteen were received from 35 of our 50 United States and 11 came from foreign countries .
New York led in the number of inquiries , followed by California , New Jersey , Massachusetts , and Pennsylvania .
Among foreign countries responding were Germany , Canada , Brazil and India .
Industrial promotion
An important operation in soliciting industrial locations involves what we term `` Missionary calls '' by one of this Division's industrial promotion specialists .
These consist of visits , without previous announcement , on top officials of manufacturing concerns located in highly industrialized areas .
More than 25 carefully selected cities were visited , including New York , Brooklyn , Long Island City , Newark , Elizabeth , Stamford , Waterbury , New Haven , Bridgeport , Boston , Cambridge , Worcester , and Waltham .
Out of a total of 603 calls , 452 contacts were established with top executive personnel .
We received 76 out-of-state visitors interested in investigating Rhode Island's industrial advantages , and Industrial Division personnel made 55 out-of-state follow-up visits .
Industrial conferences
During 1960 , two important conferences were organized by the Development Council's Industrial Division .
In June , the Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce -- in conjunction with local trade associations , chambers of commerce , and bank officials -- sponsored a World Trade Conference at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel .
Its purpose was to find ways of offsetting the United States' declining balance of trade for 1958 and 1959 .
Approximately 100 representatives of business attended this conclave and the R. I. Export Conference Committee later voted to continue the activity as an annual event .
On October 8th of last year , the Industrial Division sponsored the Governor's Conference on Industrial Development at the former Henry Barnard School .
A comprehensive program devoted to the various phases of the development effort attracted 143 interested individuals .
Morning sessions included addresses by Ward Miller , Jr. of the U. S. Dept. of Commerce .
Richard Preston , executive director of the New Hampshire State Planning and Development Commission , and Edwin C. Kepler of General Electric Company .
Workshop sessions in the afternoon featured development executives from Pennsylvania , Connecticut and Maine , and rounded out a rewarding program .
In connection with this conference , a 64-page supplement was published in the October 2nd edition of The Providence Sunday Journal .
Devoted to the improvement in business climate and increase in industrial construction in Rhode Island , it has proved a valuable mailing piece for this Division .
More than 2000 copies have been sent out to prospective clients .
Mailings and publications
Other special mailings by the Industrial Division included copies of speeches delivered at the Governor's Conference , letters and brochures to conferees at Med-Chemical Symposium at University of Rhode Island and letters and reprints of industrial advertisements to such organizations as Society of Industrial Realtors .
1184 copies of the R. I. Directory Of Manufacturers were distributed : 643 in-state and 541 out-of-state .
The Industrial Division published , in 1960 , a new , attractive industrial brochure , `` Rhode Island -- Right For Industry '' , and prepared copy for a new edition of the Directory Of Manufacturers ( to be printed shortly ) , and for a new space catalogue .
Additional promotional activities included organizing the dedication program for Operation Turnkey , the new automated post office , and a conference with representatives of Brown University , Providence College , and University of Rhode Island , and eight electronics concerns regarding the inauguration of a training program for electronics personnel .
Planning division
Stated in its simplest terms , the main job of the Planning Division is to plan for the future of the State of Rhode Island .
The activities of the Planning Division are defined in considerable detail in the enabling act of the Development Council , which assigns to the agency both broad responsibilities and specific duties in the field of planning .
Two years ago , the Institute of Public Administration issued an extremely comprehensive report entitled `` State-Local Relations In Metropolitan Rhode Island .
As the result of an exhaustive review of the recommendations contained in this report , plus an analysis of our own enabling act , the Planning Division developed a number of basic planning objectives which caused a reorientation of its work program .
These objectives are stated here because of their importance in understanding the current activities of the Planning Division .
( 1 )
First priority will be given to the preparation of a meaningful state guide plan to serve as a background for all other planning activities in the state .
( 2 )
Recognizing the truth of the statement by the Institute of Public Administration that `` Metropolian Planning ( in Rhode Island ) means , or should mean , state planning '' , the state guide plan will take into account the metropolitan nature of many of Rhode Island's problems .
( 3 )
It will continue to be an objective of this division to encourage the acceptance of planning as a proper and continuing responsibility of local government .
To this end , the community assistance program of the planning division will continue to be operated as a staff function to make available , on a shared cost basis , technical planning assistance to those communities in the state unable to maintain their own planning staff .
( 4 )
The planning division will take the initiative in encouraging planning cooperation at all levels of government ; ;
among the operating departments of the state ; ;
between the cities and towns of the state ; ;
and on a regional basis between the six New England states .
( 5 )
On the basis that all citizens of the state are entitled to benefit equally in the development of its resources , plans for the provision of essential services ( such as water ) will be based on need regardless of arbitrary political boundaries , within the framework of the state plan .
( 6 )
The state development budget will reflect the capital needs of all the state agencies and the priority of the projects in the budget will be based on the state plan .
( 7 )
In preparing the state guide plan , particular attention will be given means of strengthening the economy of the state through the development of industry and recreation .
Functionally the planning division carries out four activities : long-range state planning , current state planning , local planning assistance ; ;
and the preparation of the state development budget .
Long-range state planning
The planning division has embarked on the most complete and comprehensive state planning program in the nation .
The long-range aspects of this program are divided into four distinct phases : basic mapping , inventory , analysis and plan and policy formation .
The work program , as it was originally proposed , was to take five years to complete .
Recent events -- particularly the necessity of providing planning information for the statewide origin/destination study of the Department of Public Works -- indicate that this schedule will have to be accelerated .
The basic mapping phase of the program has been completed and the inventory phase is scheduled for completion July 1 , 1961 .
Basic mapping
Since accurate base maps are necessary for any planning program , the first step taken by the planning division to implement the long-range state plan has been to prepare two series of base maps -- one at a scale of 1 inch to a mile , and the second a series of 26 sheets at a scale of 1 inch to 2000 feet , covering the entire state .
With these maps completed , the inventory phase of the plan has been started .
Inventory
With the aid of matching federal funds available under Section 701 of the Housing Act of 1954 as amended , the planning division began a one year program July 1 , 1960 to complete the inventory phase of the state planning program .
This phase consists of four items : urban land use , rural land use , physical features and public utility service areas .
Since the validity of all subsequent planning depends on the accuracy of the basic inventory information , great care is being taken that the inventory is as complete as possible .
The urban land use study carried out by the planning division staff has consisted of identifying and mapping all urban land uses which are of significance to statewide planning .
The rural land use study is being carried out under contract by the University of Rhode Island and identifies all agricultural land uses in the state by type of use .
The mapping of important physical features such as slopes and types of soil and the collection of all available information pertaining to public utility service areas are being conducted as staff projects and , like the other two inventory projects , are scheduled for completion July 1 , 1961 .
Analysis
The collection of information is meaningless unless it is understood and used for a definite purpose .
Special districts in Rhode island .
It is not within the scope of this report to elaborate in any great detail upon special districts in Rhode Island .
However , a word should be mentioned in regard to them as independent units of government .
There are forty-seven special district governments in Rhode Island ( excluding two regional school districts , four housing authorities , and the Kent County Water Authority ) .
These forty-seven special purpose governments have the authority to levy taxes , to borrow money , own property , sue and be sued , and in general to exercise normal corporate powers .
Unlike cities and towns , however , they do not have to submit any financial statements to the state Bureau of Audits .
It is not an exaggeration to say that the state government has little or no fiscal control over these units of government .
In addition to the collection of service charges , the special districts levy annual property taxes of approximately $450,000 .
Fiscal years in other states
comparative data .
A review of practices in other states regarding fiscal uniformity is pertinent to this report .
Included in the findings are : 1 .
Forty-six states , including Rhode Island , end their fiscal year on June 30 .
The other four states end on varying dates : Alabama ( Sept. 30 ) , New York ( March 31 ) , Pennsylvania ( May 31 ) , and Texas ( August 31 ) .
2 .
In sixteen states , the fiscal year ending of the cities ( June 30 ) is the same as that of the state : Alaska , Arizona , California , Delaware , Massachusetts , Montana , Nevada , New Mexico , North Carolina , North Dakota , Oklahoma , Oregon , Vermont , West Virginia , Wyoming , and Hawaii ) .
3 .
In eleven states , the fiscal year of the cities ends on December 31 , while the state fiscal year ends on June 30 ( Arkansas , Colorado , Indiana , Kansas , New Hampshire , New Jersey , Ohio , South Dakota , Utah , Washington , and Wisconsin ) .
4 .
In eight states whose fiscal years close on June 30 , a majority of their cities close their fiscal year on December 31 : :
( Georgia , Iowa , Kentucky , Maine , Maryland , Minnesota , Virginia , and South Carolina ) .
5 .
One state , Alabama , closes its fiscal year on September 30 , and all cities in the state , with one exception , also close fiscal years on September 30 .
6 .
Mississippi closes its fiscal year on June 30 , while all of its cities close their fiscal years on September 30 .
7 .
Pennsylvania closes its fiscal year on May 31 .
All of its cities close their fiscal years on December 31 .
The remaining twelve states have varying fiscal years for the state , city and local governments .
However , only Illinois , Oregon , Louisiana and Rhode Island have a situation in which the sundry units of government vary widely in relation to fiscal uniformity .
Fiscal uniformity : advantages and disadvantages
advantages .
An excellent summary of advantages concerning the uniform fiscal year and coordinated fiscal calendars was contained in a paper presented by a public finance authority recently .
He listed among the values of fiscal uniformity : 1 .
The uniform fiscal year requires compliance with common sense administration of local finances : adoption of the budget , or financial plan , in advance of spending .
2 .
The uniform fiscal year ensures conformance with another common sense rule , that of having cash in the bank before checks are drawn .
It enables towns to make more economical purchases and to take advantage of cash discounts .
3 .
The uniform fiscal year promotes more careful budgeting and strengthens control over expenditures .
By fixing the tax rate in advance of spending , upper limits are set on expenditures .
4 .
The uniform fiscal year brings the town's fiscal year into line with that of the schools , which expend the largest share of local disbursements .
This greatly simplifies the town's bookkeeping and financial reporting .
5 .
The uniform fiscal year eliminates interest charges on money borrowed in the form of tax anticipation notes .
Furthermore , tax collections not immediately needed for current expenditures may be invested in short-term treasury notes , augmenting the town's miscellaneous revenues and reducing the tax levy .
6 .
The uniform fiscal year facilitates inter-town comparison of revenues and expenditures .
When towns have the same fiscal year it is relatively easy to make meaningful comparisons ; ;
and as the cost of local government increases , the demand for such comparison also increases .
Towns having different fiscal years are difficult to compare .
Of all advantages , probably none is more important than the elimination of tax anticipation notes .
Borrowing in anticipation of current taxes and other revenues is a routine procedure of the majority of municipalities at all times .
It may be by bank loans , sale of notes or warrants , or by the somewhat casual method of issuance and registration of warrants .
In any event it is a form of borrowing which could be and should be rendered unnecessary .
Its elimination would result in the saving of interest costs , heavy when short-term money rates are high , and in freedom from dependence on credit which is not always available when needed most .
This type of borrowing can be reduced to a minimum if quarterly installment payment of taxes is instituted and the first payment placed near the opening of the fiscal year .
Any approach toward such a system looks toward saving and security .
It should be noted that there are other and equally important reasons for establishing meaningful intergovernmental reporting bases on a uniform fiscal year .
Both the federal and state governments commence their fiscal years on July 1 .
Both units of government contribute increasingly large sums of money to the several local governments in this state as indicated below :
It has been said that when local government revenues were mostly produced locally from the property tax , the lack of a uniform fiscal year was no great handicap ; ;
but with the growth of state and federal fiscal aid , the emphasis on equalization , and the state-local sharing of responsibility for certain important functions , this is no longer true .
The haphazard fiscal year calendar is an obstacle to the planning of clear and efficient state-local revenue and expenditure relationships .
Disadvantages .
Although there are many sound reasons for adopting uniform and coordinated fiscal years in Rhode Island , there are also certain difficulties encountered .
These involve more the mechanics employed in adjusting to fiscal uniformity than they do actual disadvantages to the principle .
One problem is a matter of shifting dates ; ;
the other , is how to finance the transition .
Little can be done about the changing of dates .
This is an inherent part of adjusting fiscal calendars .
It usually means a confused and disgruntled tax-paying public for a period of time .
But cooperation and understanding between local officials and the citizenry help lessen this problem .
The other problem is the matter of financing the transition period in the several cities and towns .
This will be covered more fully later .
It should be kept in mind that the ease or difficulty with which a town or city can convert to the proposed plan is directly dependent upon the financial condition of that town or city .
Fortunately , there are no cities or towns in the state , with one or two possible exceptions that are in too difficult a position to finance the proposed change .
Sacrifice will have to be made in some cases , but it is to the municipality's advantage to finance the change-over for a short period of time rather than pay interest on tax anticipation notes indefinitely .
Adjusting the fiscal calendars
The advantages of a uniform fiscal year and well synchronized fiscal and tax collection calendars are sufficiently great for Rhode Island municipalities to exert effort to secure them .
The type of program desired can be determined by the nature and extent of the adjustments needed .
Two features are immediately evident .
First , the present situation is too varied to be systematized by any single formula .
Second , the shift to a uniform July 1 to June 30 fiscal year will , of itself , improve the tax collection calendars of the great majority of cities and towns .
There are at least two problems to consider : one is a matter of adjusting the fiscal calendar ; ;
the other is how to finance the adjustments when necessary .
The latter matter is considered in detail in a later section .
Twelve cities and towns in Rhode Island presently indicate some plans to establish a uniform and/or coordinated fiscal tax year calendar .
Plans vary from the `` talking stage '' to establishing special committees to accomplish this end .
What is important here is that many of the cities and towns recognize the need for improved fiscal practices and are taking the initiative to obtain them .
An analysis of the fiscal tax collection year calendars throughout the state indicates that transition may not be as painful as is commonly thought .
However , it must be stressed that much depends upon the financial condition of the individual cities and towns involved .
The adjustments needed to establish a uniform and coordinated fiscal tax collection year calendar throughout Rhode Island , based on a July 1 to June 30 year , are shown below .
No adjustment needed .
Six cities and towns are presently on a July 1 to June 30 fiscal year and have coordinated their tax collection year with it .
No change is required for these towns .
These municipalities include : Barrington , Lincoln , Middletown , Newport , North Kingstown , and South Kingstown .
Adjustment of fiscal year .
One town and one city , Coventry and East Providence , require an adjustment of their fiscal year only .
This change will automatically adjust their tax collection year calendar so as to make all tax installments due and payable in the fiscal year collectible within that year .
Adjustment of tax collection year .
Six cities and towns are now on a July 1 to June 30 fiscal year and will need only to adjust their tax collection year calendar to establish uniformity .
These cities and towns include Bristol , Glocester , Pawtucket , Cumberland , Central Falls , and Woonsocket .
Simultaneous adjustments .
Two cities to be considered , Providence and Cranston , are an enigma .
Both have excellent integration of their fiscal tax collection year calendars .
However , neither of these two cities is on the desired July 1 to June 30 fiscal year .
The adjustment to a uniform and coordinated fiscal period could be accomplished relatively easily for them .
In that both cities end their fiscal years on September 30 , they could levy taxes for an interim period of nine months , commencing with September 30 and ending with June 30 .
These three installment dates would be : October 26 , January 26 , and April 25 ( Providence ) and November 15 , February 16 and May 15 ( Cranston ) .
Both would start their new fiscal year on July 1 .
Their tax collection calendar could then be : July 25 , October 26 , January 26 , and April 25 , ( Providence ) ; ;
and August 15 , November 15 , February 17 , and May 15 , ( Cranston ) .
Under this plan both Cranston and Providence would be on the uniform fiscal year but would still be using the same installment periods .
Varying adjustments .
The remaining twenty-three towns have fiscal years which end prior to June 30 .
All of these towns will require adjustments of both their fiscal and tax collection years .
Assuming an adjustment to the July 1 to June 30 fiscal year , the required adjustment of the tax collection years and the towns involved are shown in Table 3 .
Methods of financing adjustments
Aside from the matter of adjusting the fiscal and tax calendars , there is the problem of financing the adjustment when this is necessary .
It should be emphasized strongly that adjustments in fiscal dates or adoption of interim budgets do not necessarily mean financing over and above normal governmental requirements .
In many communities there is simply no financial problem ; ;
it is only a matter of adjusting accounting methods , careful fiscal planning and management , or some like combination of techniques .
In other municipalities the difficulties in overcoming the financial burden have been sufficiently great to dishearten proponents of fiscal year changes .
Fortunately , such cases in Rhode Island are more the exception than the rule .
As shown earlier in Table 1 , the several cities and towns use widely varied fiscal and tax collection calendars .
In addition , no two Rhode Island communities are identical in relation to their over-all financial condition .
These factors practically insure that no single financing formula is feasible ; ;
each situation must be studied and a plan developed that takes into consideration such factors as the effect of the existing and prospective tax calendars , the financial condition of the treasuries , and the length of the transition interval .
Suitable plans range from those that are very easy to develop to those that are difficult to formulate and require borrowing ranging from short-term serial notes to long-term bonds .
The financial problem , where it exists , usually stems from the adoption of a budget for the transitional or adjustment period .
For those communities which have financial difficulties in effecting adjustments , there are a number of alternatives any one of which alone , or in combination with others , would minimize if not even eliminate the problem .
Rhode Island Heritage Week proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , governor
The theme of Rhode Island Heritage Week for 1961 will be `` Independence and Union '' .
It commemorates the 185th anniversary of Rhode Island's Independence when , upon May 4 , 1776 , the General Assembly , by its action , established the first free republic in the New World .
As this year marks the centennial of the beginning of the Civil War , this fact is being commemorated with several exhibits throughout the State , but most of all paying tribute to the first Rhode Island Volunteers who rushed to the defense of the City of Washington , putting at the disposal of President Lincoln the only fully equipped and best trained regiment at this time .
On April 30 , ceremonies commemorating the departure of these volunteers will take place at 1:00 P.M. at the Dexter Training Grounds in Providence .
The Independence Day celebration will be properly observed with a big military and civic parade from West Warwick to the Greene Homestead in Anthony ; ;
and now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim the week of april 29th to may 7th , 1961 , as Rhode Island Heritage Week , advising our citizens that throughout this week many historic houses and beautiful gardens will be open to visitors as well as industrial plants , craft shops , museums and libraries and I earnestly urge all to take advantage of these opportunities to see as many of these places as they can during this outstanding week .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 21st day of April , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one and on Independence , the one hundred and eighty-fifth .
Governor
Armed Forces Day Proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor
The year 1961 marks the fourteenth anniversary of the unification of our Armed Forces under the National Security Act of 1947 .
National defense , like the continuing search for peace with freedom and justice for all , is `` everybody's business '' .
Our investment in this effort , the greatest in our Nation's history , reflects our determination to ensure the peace and the future of freedom .
It is a sound investment .
As the President has said , `` only when our arms are sufficient beyond doubt can we be certain that they will never be employed '' .
Armed Forces Day is the annual report on this investment , a public presentation designed to give our own people , and the people of other lands who stand with us for peace with freedom and justice , the best possible opportunity to see and understand what we have and why we have it .
It is the purpose of Armed Forces Day to give Americans an opportunity to honor men of the Armed Forces , those who have made the supreme sacrifice , those who remain to preserve our security .
Freedom depends upon them ; ;
now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim Saturday , May 20th , 1961 , as Armed Forces Day , reminding our citizens that we should rededicate ourselves to our Nation , respecting the uniforms as the guardians of our precious liberty .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 17th day of May , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth .
Governor
National Maritime Day proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor
The President of the United States , pursuant to a Joint Resolution of Congress , has issued a proclamation each year since 1933 declaring May 22nd to be National Maritime Day .
This date in 1819 marked the sailing of the S. S. `` Savannah '' from Savannah , Georgia , for Liverpool .
This voyage was the first successful crossing of the Atlantic under steam propulsion .
The day is now appropriately set aside to honor the American men and women who have contributed to the success of our merchant marine fleet in peace and war .
The Merchant Marine is the `` Fourth Arm of Defense '' , for a strong and effective American Merchant Marine is essential to the economy and security of our Nation .
Through trade and travel across the seas the American Merchant Marine is carrying out its historic mission of linking the United States of America with friendly nations across the seas ; ;
and now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim Monday , May 22nd , 1961 , as National Maritime Day , reminding our citizens that American Merchant ships and American seamen are ready at all times to serve our Nation in the cause of freedom and justice .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 20th day of April , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-fifth .
Governor
Miss Rhode Island Pageant Week proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor
The Miss Rhode Island Pageant is sponsored by the Rhode Island Junior Chamber of Commerce as a part of the nation-wide search for the typical American girl -- a Miss America from Rhode Island .
This is an official preliminary contest of the Miss America Pageant held each September in Atlantic City .
The ideal girl -- possessed of talent , poise , intelligence , personality and beauty of face and figure -- is chosen each year to represent Rhode Island .
Many hours are given free by the Jaycees to make this and all local pageants outstanding events .
Proceeds realized from these pageants are used by the Jaycees to help support their various youth , health , welfare and community betterment activities throughout the state .
Miss Sally May Saabye , ( Miss Rhode Island 1960 ) says that within a short time -- on June 17th -- her reign will come to an end .
She hopes that all will support the contestants from our own community by attending our Pageants and the State Pageant June 17 ; ;
and now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim the week of June 11th to 17th , 1961 , as Miss Rhode Island Pageant Week , with deep appreciation to the Jaycees , local and statewide , for the presentation of their beautiful Pageants and the encouragement of all Rhode Island girls to participate .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 11th day of June , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth .
Governor
United Nations Day proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , governor
For the purpose of maintaining international peace and promoting the advancement of all people , the United States of America joined in founding the United Nations .
The United Nations Charter sets forth standards which , if adhered to , will promote peace and justice throughout the world .
It is extremely important for each American to realize that the theme `` The United Nations Is Your Business '' applies to him personally .
The world desperately needs the United Nations .
United Nations Day is the birthday of the United Nations , mankind's noblest attempt to establish lasting peace with justice ; ;
and now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim Tuesday , October 24th , 1961 , as United Nations day , calling upon all our citizens to engage in appropriate observances , demonstrating faith in the United Nations and thereby contributing to a better understanding of the aims of the United Nations throughout the land .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 5th day of July , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth .
Governor
The State Ballet of Rhode Island Week proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor
The ballet originated in Italy about 1450 .
At that time it was a series of sophisticated social dances whose steps were often combined with other steps devised by the choreographer .
Ballet flowered in Italy during the next hundred years , and about 1550 was carried to France when the Italian princess , Catherine De Medicis , married the King of France .
The most famous ballet of that time was called Ballet Comique De La Reine ( 1581 ) .
Dances alternated with sung or spoken verses .
Ballets were used in opera from its beginning .
They were placed either in the middle of the acts or in the intermissions .
The State Ballet of Rhode Island , the first incorporated group , was formed for the purpose of extending knowledge of the art of ballet in the Community , to promote interest in ballet performances , to contribute to the cultural life of the State , and to provide opportunity for gifted dance students who , for one reason or another , are unable to pursue a career and to develop others for the professional state ; ;
and now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim the week of Monday , November 13 , 1961 , as the State Ballet of Rhode Island Week , requesting all Rhode Islanders to give special attention to this unusual event which should contribute to the cultural life of the State .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 23d day of October , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth .
Governor
Proclamation Thanksgiving Day by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor
As another Thanksgiving draws near , let us take time out from the often hectic pace of our lives to try and recapture the feelings that filled the hearts of the Pilgrims on the first Thanksgiving .
The Pilgrims gathered to thank the Lord for His benevolence during their first year in the new land .
They had been through trying times , but their faith in the Almighty had given them the courage and the strength to meet and overcome the many problems and difficulties that were the price they had to pay for freedom .
And as the Pilgrims bowed their heads in humble gratitude , they shared another feeling -- the anticipation of what the future held for them and their posterity .
They could not guess that from their concepts of liberty and freedom would some day be born a new nation that for years would be the symbol of hope to the oppressed countries of the world .
They simply turned to God filled with gratitude and faith .
We who are living today may learn a valuable lesson from those who celebrated the first Thanksgiving Day .
The Lord has shown time and time again His love for us .
We have only to compare the liberty and high standard of living we enjoy in this great country with the oppression and frugality of other nations to realize with humble gratitude that God's Providence has been with us since the very beginning of our country .
And yet , accompanying our gratitude is the realization that we are living in a crucial time .
With world peace constantly being threatened , most of us regard the future skeptically , and even with fear .
It is at this time that we should imitate the Pilgrims by accompanying our prayers of thanks with the conviction that we shall continue to be in dire need for the Lord's protection in the future , if we are to have peace ; ;
now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim Thursday , November 23rd , 1961 , as Thanksgiving Day ,
And so , let us remember on this day not only to thank the Almighty Who gave hope and courage to the Pilgrims , but also to place our trust in Him that He will continue to protect us in the future as He has in the past .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 21st day of November , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth .
John A. Notte Jr. ,
Governor
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Act of July 3 , 1952 ( 66 Stat. 328 ) as amended ( 42 U.S.C. 1952-1958 ) , is further amended to read as follows : Section 1 .
In view of the increasing shortage of usable surface and ground water in many parts of the Nation and the importance of finding new sources of supply to meet its present and future water needs , it is the policy of the Congress to provide for the development of practicable low-cost means for the large-scale production of water of a quality suitable for municipal , industrial , agricultural , and other beneficial consumptive uses from saline water , and for studies and research related thereto .
As used in this Act , the term ' saline water ' includes sea water , brackish water , and other mineralized or chemically charged water , and the term ' United States ' extends to and includes the District of Columbia , the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico , and the territories and possessions of the United States .
Sec. 2 .
In order to accomplish the purposes of this Act , the Secretary of the Interior shall -- ( A )
conduct , encourage , and promote fundamental scientific research and basic studies to develop the best and most economical processes and methods for converting saline water into water suitable for beneficial consumptive purposes ; ;
( B )
conduct engineering research and technical development work to determine , by laboratory and pilot plant testing , the results of the research and studies aforesaid in order to develop processes and plant designs to the point where they can be demonstrated on a large and practical scale ; ;
( C )
recommend to the Congress from time to time authorization for construction and operation , or for participation in the construction and operation , of a demonstration plant for any process which he determines , on the basis of subsections ( A ) and ( B ) above , has great promise of accomplishing the purposes of this Act , such recommendation to be accompanied by a report on the size , location , and cost of the proposed plant and the engineering and economic details with respect thereto ; ;
( D )
study methods for the recovery and marketing of commercially valuable byproducts resulting from the conversion of saline water ; ;
and ( E )
undertake economic studies and surveys to determine present and prospective costs of producing water for beneficial consumptive purposes in various parts of the United States by the leading saline water processes as compared with other standard methods .
Sec. 3 .
In carrying out his functions under Section 2 of this Act , the Secretary may -- ( A )
acquire the services of chemists , physicists , engineers , and other personnel by contract or otherwise ; ;
( B )
enter into contracts with educational institutions , scientific organizations , and industrial and engineering firms ; ;
( C )
make research and training grants ; ;
( D )
utilize the facilities of Federal scientific laboratories ; ;
( E )
establish and operate necessary facilities and test sites at which to carry on the continuous research , testing , development , and programing necessary to effectuate the purposes of this Act ; ;
( F )
acquire secret processes , technical data , inventions , patent applications , patents , licenses , land and interests in land ( including water rights ) , plants and facilities , and other property or rights by purchase , license , lease , or donation ; ;
( G )
assemble and maintain pertinent and current scientific literature , both domestic and foreign , and issue bibliographical data with respect thereto ; ;
( H )
cause on-site inspections to be made of promising projects , domestic and foreign , and , in the case of projects located in the United States , cooperate and participate in their development in instances in which the purposes of this Act will be served thereby ; ;
( I )
foster and participate in regional , national , and international conferences relating to saline water conversion ; ;
( J )
coordinate , correlate , and publish information with a view to advancing the development of low-cost saline water conversion projects ; ;
and ( K )
cooperate with other Federal departments and agencies , with State and local departments , agencies , and instrumentalities , and with interested persons , firms , institutions , and organizations .
Sec. 4 .
( A )
Research and development activities undertaken by the Secretary shall be coordinated or conducted jointly with the Department of Defense to the end that developments under this Act which are primarily of a civil nature will contribute to the defense of the Nation and that developments which are primarily of a military nature will , to the greatest practicable extent compatible with military and security requirements , be available to advance the purposes of this Act and to strengthen the civil economy of the Nation .
The fullest cooperation by and with Atomic Energy Commission , the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare , the Department of State , and other concerned agencies shall also be carried out in the interest of achieving the objectives of this Act .
( B )
All research within the United States contracted for , sponsored , cosponsored , or authorized under authority of this Act , shall be provided for in such manner that all information , uses , products , processes , patents , and other developments resulting from such research developed by Government expenditure will ( with such exceptions and limitations , if any , as the Secretary may find to be necessary in the interest of national defense ) be available to the general public .
This subsection shall not be so construed as to deprive the owner of any background patent relating thereto of such rights as he may have thereunder .
Sec. 5 .
( A )
The Secretary may dispose of water and byproducts resulting from his operations under this Act .
All moneys received from dispositions under this section shall be paid into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts ) .
( B )
Nothing in the Act shall be construed to alter existing law with respect to the ownership and control of water .
Sec. 6 .
The Secretary shall make reports to the President and the Congress at the beginning of each regular session of the action taken or instituted by him under the provisions of this Act and of prospective action during the ensuing year .
Sec. 7 .
The Secretary of the Interior may issue rules and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this Act .
Sec. 8 .
There are authorized to be appropriated such sums , to remain available until expended , as may be necessary , but not more than $75,000,000 in all , ( A ) to carry out the provisions of this Act during the fiscal years 1962 to 1967 , inclusive ; ;
( B ) to finance , for not more than two years beyond the end of said period , such grants , contracts , cooperative agreements , and studies as may theretofore have been undertaken pursuant to this Act ; ;
and ( C ) to finance , for not more than three years beyond the end of said period , such activities as are required to correlate , coordinate , and round out the results of studies and research undertaken pursuant to this Act : Provided , That funds available in any one year for research and development may , subject to the approval of the Secretary of State to assure that such activities are consistent with the foreign policy objectives of the United States , be expended in cooperation with public or private agencies in foreign countries in the development of processes useful to the program in the United States : And provided further , That every such contract or agreement made with any public or private agency in a foreign country shall contain provisions effective to insure that the results or information developed in connection therewith shall be available without cost to the United States for the use of the United States throughout the world and for the use of the general public within the United States .
Sec. 2 .
Section 4 of the joint resolution of September 2 , 1958 ( 72 Stat. 1707 ; ;
42 U. S. C. 1958 ( ) ) , is hereby amended to read :
The authority of the Secretary of the Interior under this joint resolution to construct , operate , and maintain demonstration plants shall terminate upon the expiration of twelve years after the date on which this joint resolution is approved .
Upon the expiration of a period deemed adequate for demonstration purposes for each plant , but not to exceed such twelve-year period , the Secretary shall proceed as promptly as practicable to dispose of any plants so constructed by sale to the highest bidder , or as may otherwise be directed by Act of Congress .
Upon such sale , there shall be returned to any State or public agency which has contributed financial assistance under Section 3 of this joint resolution a proper share of the net proceeds of the sale .
Approved September 22 , 1961 .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to make or cause to be made a study covering -- ( 1 )
the causes of injuries and health hazards in Metal and nonmetallic mines ( excluding coal and lignite mines ) ; ;
( 2 )
the relative effectiveness of voluntary versus mandatory reporting of accident statistics ; ;
( 3 )
the relative contribution to safety of inspection programs embodying -- ( A )
right-of-entry only and ( B )
right-of-entry plus enforcement authority ; ;
( 4 )
the effectiveness of health and safety education and training ; ;
( 5 )
the magnitude of effort and costs of each of these possible phases of an effective safety program for metal and nonmetallic mines ( excluding coal and lignite mines ) ; ;
and ( 6 )
the scope and adequacy of State mine-safety laws applicable to such mines and the enforcement of such laws .
Sec. 2 .
( A )
The Secretary of the Interior or any duly authorized representative shall be entitled to admission to , and to require reports from the operator of , any metal or nonmetallic mine which is in a State ( excluding any coal or lignite mine ) , the products of which regularly enter commerce or the operations of which substantially affect commerce , for the purpose of gathering data and information necessary for the study authorized in the first section of this Act .
( B )
As used in this section -- ( 1 )
the term `` State '' includes the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and any possession of the United States ; ;
and ( 2 )
the term `` commerce '' means commerce between any State and any place outside thereof , or between points within the same State but through any place outside thereof .
Sec. 3 .
The Secretary of the Interior shall submit a report of his findings , together with recommendations for an effective safety program for metal and nonmetallic mines ( excluding coal and lignite mines ) based upon such findings , to the Congress not more than two years after the date of enactment of this Act .
Approved September 26 , 1961 .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to establish and maintain a program of stabilization payments to small domestic producers of lead and zinc ores and concentrates in order to stabilize the mining of lead and zinc by small domestic producers on public , Indian , and other lands as provided in this Act .
Sec. 2 .
( A )
Subject to the limitations of this Act , the Secretary shall make stabilization payments to small domestic producers upon presentation of evidence satisfactory to him of their status as such producers and of the sale by them of newly mined ores , or concentrates produced therefrom , as provided in this Act .
Payments shall be made only with respect to the metal content as determined by assay .
( B )
Such payments shall be made to small domestic producers of lead as long as the market price for common lead at New York , New York , as determined by the Secretary , is below 14-1/2 cents per pound , and such payments shall be 75 per centum of the difference between 14-1/2 cents per pound and the average market price for the month in which the sale occurred as determined by the Secretary .
( C )
Such payments shall be made to small domestic producers of zinc as long as the market price for prime western zinc at East Saint Louis , Illinois , as determined by the Secretary , is below 14-1/2 cents per pound , and such payments shall be 55 per centum of the difference between 14-1/2 cents per pound and the average market price for the month in which the sale occurred as determined by the Secretary .
( D )
The maximum amount of payments which may be made pursuant to this Act on account of sales of newly mined ores or concentrates produced therefrom made during the calendar year 1962 shall not exceed $4,500,000 ; ;
the maximum amount of such payments which may be made on account of such sales made during the calendar year 1963 shall not exceed $4,500,000 ; ;
the maximum amount of such payments which may be made on account of such sales made during the calendar year 1964 shall not exceed $4,000,000 ; ;
and the maximum amount of such payments which may be made on account of such sales made during the calendar year 1965 shall not exceed $3,500,000 .
In the same period , 431 presentations by members of the staff were made to local , national , and international medical groups .
3 .
Education :
A .
The education function of the Institute is carried on by the staff in the departments of pathology and its consultants .
During fiscal year 1959 , six courses were conducted : Forensic Pathology , Application of Histochemistry to Pathology , Pathology of Diseases of Laboratory Animals , Ophthalmic Pathology , Pathology of the Oral Regions , and a Cardiovasculatory Pathology Seminar .
During fiscal year 1960 , seven courses were conducted : Application of Histochemistry to Pathology , Forensic Pathology , Pathology of Diseases of Laboratory Animals , Pathology of the Oral Regions , Ophthalmic Pathology , Forensic Sciences Symposium , and Orthopedic Pathology .
From 1 July 1960 through 31 January 1961 , six courses were conducted : Workshop in Resident Training in Pathology , Pathology of Diseases of Laboratory Animals , Application of Histochemistry of Pathology , Orthopedic Pathology , Forensic Sciences Symposium , and Forensic Pathology .
B .
During fiscal years 1959 and 1960 , there were 139 military and civilian students who came to the Institute for varying periods of special instruction .
4 .
Research :
The Institute is engaged in an extensive program of medico-military scientific research in both morphological and experimental pathology .
Among the specific areas of concentration in which the staff is engaged , are such projects as biological and biochemical studies of the effects of microwaves ; ;
study of motor end plates in man and animals ; ;
investigation of respiratory diseases of laboratory animals ; ;
metabolic responses to reduced oxygen tension ; ;
neuropathology of nuclear and cosmic radiation ; ;
carcinoma of prostate ; ;
evaluation of histochemical techniques ; ;
and hip dysplasia in dogs .
There has been an increase in cooperative research with other Federal agencies and civilian institutions .
During the period from 1 July 1960 through 31 January 1961 , additional research affiliations were effected with the U. S. Army Medical Research and Development Command to conduct research in procedures for quantitative electron microscopy , and for the study of biophysical and biological studies of the structure and function of ocular tissue .
Also , the Defense Atomic Support Agency sponsored a long-range study at this Institute on the response of massive suspension cultures of mammalian cells to acute radiation .
Other scientific agencies , both Federal and civilian , supported studies in quantitative electron microscopical approach to microchemistry and microcytochemistry ; ;
the investigation of the relationship of diphosphopyridine nucleotide synthesizine enzyme to tumor growth ; ;
morphological study and classification of leukemia and lymphoma cases in animals ; ;
and the study of structural changes in M. leprae and other mycobacteria .
Medical Illustration Service
1 .
The Medical Illustration Service is responsible for the collection , publication , exhibition , and file of medical illustration material of medico-military importance to the Armed Forces .
In addition to maintaining a permanent central file of illustrations of diseases , wounds , and injuries of military importance , it provides facilities for clinical photography , photomicrography , and medical arts , and operates a printing plant , by permission of Congressional Committee , for publication of an `` Atlas of Tumor Pathology '' .
It also maintains shops for the design and fabrication of exhibits , training aids and instruments and libraries for the loan of films and teaching lantern slide sets .
2 .
During this period , a total of 762 exhibits were presented at 442 medical and scientific meetings .
Of these exhibits , 154 were newly constructed .
Twenty-nine exhibits received awards .
3 .
Visual and operable training aids developed by the Medical Illustration Service , were used in support of Army Medical Service mass casualty exercises .
Members of the Medical Illustration Service lectured and conducted demonstrations on the use of training aids to military personnel and various civilian medical organizations .
Demonstrations of new and projected training aids were conducted at the Medical Service Instructor's Conference , Brooke Army Medical Center , Texas .
4 .
In support of the emphasis placed by the Department of Defense on instruction in emergency medical care , the Medical Illustration Service developed casualty simulation kits and rescue breathing manikins which are being field tested ; ;
and overhead projector transparency sets on the subjects of Military Sanitation : First Aid For Soldiers ; ;
Bandaging And Splinting ; ;
The Emergency Medical Treatment Unit , Phase 1 ; ;
and Emergency War Surgery in support of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) Handbook .
Fifty lantern slide teaching sets on the subject of `` Emergency War Surgery ( NATO ) '' were assembled and distributed to the Medical Military Services of foreign Governments associated with NATO and South-East Asia Treaty Organization .
The British and Canadian Liaison Officers , as well as Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization , the American Red Cross , and similar interested organizations were informed from time to time as training aids were developed .
5 .
Nine veterinary lantern slide teaching sets were developed and distributed , and lantern slide teaching sets on 21 pathology subjects were added to the loan library of the Medical Illustration Service .
Illustrations were prepared for 11 Department of the Army manuals and one Graphic Training Aid .
Sixteen lantern slide sets were loaned to the Government of India and eight sets were forwarded to the U.S. Embassy , Managua , Nicaragua for the Educational Exchange Program .
The Senate Subcommittee on Reorganization and International Organizations was provided samples of visual aids on first aid and personal health produced by the Medical Illustration Service .
6 .
Six fascicles ( 10,000 copies each ) of the `` Atlas Of Tumor Pathology '' were completed during the period of this report .
The American Registry Of Pathology
This consists of 25 individual registries , two of which were added during fiscal years 1959-1960 ( The Registry Of Forensic Pathology and The Testicular Tumor Registry ) .
These registries are sponsored by 18 national medical , dental , and veterinary societies and have as their mission the assembling of selected cases of interest to military medicine and of establishing through the mechanism of follow-up of living patients the natural history of various diseases of military-medical importance .
The American Registry Of Pathology operates as a cooperative enterprise in medical research and education between the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology and the civilian medical profession on a national and international basis , under such conditions as may be agreed upon between the National Research Council and The Surgeons General of the Army , Navy , and Air Force .
The staff utilized the collected material in these registries for numerous lectures to national and international meetings , exhibits , and published studies .
During the period of this report , 37,470 new cases were entered into the various registries .
These were selected carefully and included not only detailed clinical information but adequate pathology of value for research and educational purposes .
In this same period , six new fascicles of the Atlas Of Tumor Pathology were published and distributed to medical centers world-wide .
There were 54,320 copies of fascicles sold and 642 copies distributed free during this period .
Forty-five new Clinico-pathologic Conferences were prepared , bringing the total to 61 available for loan distribution .
Nine new teaching Clinico-pathologic Conference sets were prepared , which makes a total of 70 types of teaching sets for loan .
During this period , 7,827 teaching sets were distributed on loan .
The Clinico-pathologic Conferences have been acknowledged as of great value and in consequent great demand by the small isolated military hospitals .
The demand for teaching sets continues unabated since they provide the means for the military physicians to review the pathology of selected disease processes or organ systems for review of basic sciences and correlation of clinical physiological behavior with structural changes .
The Medical Museum
In fiscal year 1959 , the Medical Museum was moved to Chase Hall , a temporary building on Independence Avenue at Ninth Street , Southwest , and continued to display to the public the achievements of the Armed Forces Medical Services .
During the period of this report , 63 panel exhibits depicting the latest developments in medical research were displayed .
Of the 375 exhibits ( of all types ) shown , 161 were new or refurbished .
Of the 885 specimens newly mounted or refurbished , 254 were prepared for other agencies .
Eighty-five specimens were loaned for study purposes .
An exhibit , `` Macropathology -- An Ancient Art , A New Science '' , was presented at the annual meeting of the American Medical Association .
A three-dimensional exhibit depicting `` A Century Of Naval Medicine '' was formally presented to The Director by George S. Squibb , great-grandson of the founder of E. R. Squibb and Sons , for permanent display in the Museum .
Space was provided for short-time guest medical exhibits , and the Museum collected new accessions of microscopes , medical , surgical , and diagnostic instruments , uniform , and similar items of historical medico-military significance .
During the period , the laboratory rendered centralized macropathological service to qualified requesters .
Specimens were mounted for military installations , governmental agencies , and medical schools .
Three hundred five copies of the Manual Of Macropathological Techniques were distributed .
Thirty-five military and civilian students received laboratory training .
During fiscal years 1959 and 1960 , there were 795,586 visitors to the Museum .
During the period from 1 July 1960 through 31 January 1961 , the Medical Museum was required to move to Temporary Building `` S '' on the Mall from Chase Hall .
Throughout the period and during the movement operation , the Museum continued its functional support of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology .
Armed Forces Medical Publication Agency
The Armed Forces Medical Publication Agency , established in 1949 , has published , since January 1950 , The United States Armed Forces Medical Journal as a triservice publication to furnish material of professional interest to Medical Department officers of the three military services .
Its supplement , The Medical Technicians Bulletin , supplied similar material to enlisted medical personnel .
These publications replaced the U. S. Naval Medical Bulletin , published continuously from 1907 through 1959 , as well as the Navy's Hospital Corps Quarterly and the Bulletin of the U. S. Army Medical Department , published from 1922 to 1949 .
In addition , their establishment made it unnecessary to begin publication of a contemplated Air Force medical bulletin .
Estimated annual savings resulting from publication of the Journal and Bulletin on a triservice basis , as compared with the cost of producing separate periodicals for each service , were between $65,000 and $70,000 .
Additionally , on the many ships at sea and in the smaller naval stations , the availability of the Journal removed the necessity of subscribing to several additional journals of civilian origin over and above the quantity now authorized , in order to provide any reasonably comparable coverage .
From 1 July 1958 to 30 June 1960 , 24 numbers of the Journal and nine of the Bulletin were published .
Each Journal contained articles of professional and clinical interest , and departments devoted to military medical news , reviews of new books , and other features of interest to officers of the medical services .
The Council on National Defense of the American Medical Association contributed a brief article to each issue entitled , `` This Is Your A.M.A. '' .
Beginning with the October 1959 issue of the Journal , the method of production of copy for photo-offset reproduction was changed from varityping to hot typesetting .
This resulted in an improved appearance , but was followed by an increase in printing cost that necessitated the institution of major economies to keep within the total of allocated funds .
The use of 100 instead of 140 substance paper plus the adoption of side stapling beginning with the May 1960 issue reduced costs sufficiently to allow completion of the fiscal year with nearly $4,000 in unexpended funds .
Two special issues were published , one for November 1959 on Space Medicine , the other the Tenth Anniversary issue for January 1960 .
The February 1960 issue marked the reinstitution of the section entitled , `` The Medical Officer Writes '' .
Replacing the discontinued Medical Technicians Bulletin , publication of which was suspended with the November-December 1959 issue , a section called `` Technical Notes '' was inaugurated on a bimonthly basis beginning with the April 1960 issue .
Occasional features were published on historical medicine , special reports , bibliography , and `` Collector's Items '' .
In May 1960 , the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology began a series of articles on the `` Medical Museum '' , and in June , the Institute started contributing a regular monthly `` Case For Diagnosis '' .
The Institute also planned to furnish a regular series of articles , beginning in the fall of 1960 , on its more significant Scientific Exhibits .
The Armed Forces Epidemiological Board agreed to submit each month a report for one of its 12 commissions , so that each commission will report once a year on some phase of its work calculated to be of particular interest and value to medical officers of the Armed Forces .
The first report in this continuing series appeared in the September 1960 issue of the Journal .
Another recent achievement was the successful development of a method for the complete combustion in a bomb calorimeter of a metal in fluorine when the product is relatively non-volatile .
This work gave a heat of formation of aluminum fluoride which closely substantiates a value which had been determined by a less direct method , and raises this property to 15 percent above that accepted a few years ago .
Similar measurements are being initiated to resolve a large discrepancy in the heat of formation of another important combustion product , beryllium fluoride .
The development and testing of new apparatus to measure other properties is nearing completion .
In one of these , an exploding-wire device to study systems thermodynamically up to 6,000 Af and 100 atmospheres pressure , a major goal was achieved .
The accuracy of measuring the total electrical energy entering an exploding wire during a few microseconds was verified when two independent types of comparison with the heat energy produced had an uncertainty of less than 2 percent .
This agreement is considered very good for such short time intervals .
The method of calibration employs a fixed resistance element as a calorimeter .
The element is inserted in the discharge circuit in place of the exploding wire , and the calorimetric heating of the element is measured with high accuracy .
This is used as a reference for comparing the ohmic heating and the electrical energy obtained from the measured current through the element and the measured voltage across the element .
A high-speed shutter has been developed in order to permit photographic observation of any portion of the electrical wire explosion .
The shutter consists of two parts : a fast-opening part and a fast-closing part .
Using Edgerton's method , the fast-closing action is obtained from the blackening of a window by exploding a series of parallel lead wires .
The fast-opening of the shutter consists of a piece of aluminum foil ( approximately Af ) placed directly in front of the camera lens so that no light may pass into the camera .
The opening action is obtained when a capacitor , charged to high voltage , is suddenly discharged through the foil .
During the discharge the magnetic forces set up by the passage of current cause the edges of the foil to roll inward toward its center line , thus allowing light to pass into the camera .
Experiments have shown that the shutter is 75 percent open in about 60-80 microseconds .
The shutter aperture may be made larger or smaller by changing the foil area and adjusting the electrical energy input to the foil .
Laboratory measurements of interstellar radio spectra .
Besides the well-known hydrogen line at 21 cm wavelength , the spectra of extraterrestrial radio sources may contain sharp lines characteristic of other atoms , ions , and small molecules .
The detection and study of such line spectra would add considerably to present information on interstellar gas clouds and , perhaps , planetary atmospheres .
Among the most likely producers of detectable radio line spectra are the light diatomic hydrides OH and CH ; ;
somewhat less likely sources are the heavier hydrides SH , SiH , and Aj .
Very small concentrations of these hydrides should be detectable ; ;
in interstellar gas , concentrations as low as Af molecules per Af may be sufficient , as compared to the Af hydrogen atom's Af required for detection of the 21-cm line .
High sensitivity in radio telescopes is achieved by reducing the bandwidth of the receiver ; ;
therefore , only with precise foreknowledge of the line frequencies is an astronomical search for the radio spectra of these molecules feasible .
To secure precise measurements of these frequencies , a research program in free radical microwave spectroscopy has been started .
Since conventional methods are insensitive at the low frequencies of these molecular transitions , the paramagnetic resonance method is being used instead .
This involves the application of a strong magnetic field to the radical vapor , which shifts the low-frequency spectra to a conveniently high microwave range , where they may be measured with optimum sensitivity .
The first diatomic hydride investigated by the paramagnetic resonance method was the OH radical .
Results of this experiment include the frequencies of the two strong spectral lines by which OH may be identified in interstellar gas ; ;
the frequencies are 1665.32 and 1667.36 Af , with an uncertainty of 0.10 Af .
Success in observing these spectral lines has so far , apparently , been confined to the laboratory ; ;
extraterrestrial observations have yet to be reported .
Preparations are being made for similar experiments on CH and SH radicals .
Low temperature thermometry .
The Bureau is pursuing an active program to provide a temperature scale and thermometer calibration services in the range 1.5 to 20 Af .
The efforts and accomplishments fall into three main categories : absolute thermometry based upon the velocity of sound in helium gas , secondary thermometry involving principally studies of the behavior of germanium resistors , and helium-4 vapor-pressure measurements ( see p. 144 ) .
Acoustical interferometer .
An acoustical interferometer has been constructed and used , with helium gas as the thermometric fluid , to measure temperatures near 4.2 and 2.1 Af .
Such an interferometer provides a means of absolute temperature measurement , and may be used as an alternative to the gas thermometer .
When values of temperature derived with this instrument were compared with the accepted values associated with liquid helium-4 vapor pressures , differences of about 10 and 7 millidegrees respectively were found .
This result is preliminary , and work is continuing .
Resistance thermometers .
Carbon resistors and impurity-doped germanium resistors have been investigated for use as precision secondary thermometers in the liquid helium temperature region .
Several germanium resistors have been thermally cycled from 300 to 4.2 Af and their resistances have been found to be reproducible within 1/3 millidegree when temperatures were derived from a vapor pressure thermometer whose tubing is jacketed through most of the liquid helium .
Preliminary calibrations of the resistors have been made from 4.21 to 2.16 Af at every 0.1 Af .
The estimated standard deviations of the data for two of the resistors were 1 millidegree ; ;
and for the third resistor , 3.3 millidegrees .
Vapor pressure method .
The reproducibilities of helium vapor-pressure thermometers have been investigated in conjunction with a `` constant temperature '' liquid helium bath from 4.2 to 1.8 Af .
Surface temperature gradients have been found to exist in liquid helium baths contained in 15- and 25-liter metallic storage dewars .
The gradient was about one half of a millidegree at 4.2 Af but increased to several millidegrees for bath temperatures slightly greater than the **yl point .
A hydrostatic head correction has been neither necessary nor applicable in the determination of vapor pressures or temperatures for the bulk liquid helium .
However , the surface temperature gradient can produce erroneous vapor-pressure measurements for the bulk liquid helium unless precautions are taken to isolate the tube ( which passes through the surface to the vapor pressure bulb ) from the liquid helium surface .
It has also been observed , in helium 2 , that large discrepancies can exist between surface vapor pressures and those pressures measured by a vapor pressure thermometer .
This has been attributed to helium film flow in the vapor pressure thermometer .
In this case also the design of the thermometer can be modified to reduce the helium film flow .
Pressure transducer for pvt measurements .
Precise pressure-volume-temperature measurements on corrosive gases are dependent on a sensitive yet rugged pressure transducer .
A prototype which fulfills the requirements was developed and thoroughly tested .
The transducer is a null-type instrument and employs a stretched diaphragm , 0.001 in. thick and 1 in. in diameter .
A small pressure unbalance displaces the diaphragm and changes the capacitance between the diaphragm and an electrically insulated plate spaced 0.001 in. apart ( for Af ) .
Spherical concave backing surfaces support the diaphragm when excessive pressures are applied and prevent the stresses within the diaphragm from exceeding the elastic limit .
Over a temperature range from 25 to 200 Af and at pressures up to 250 atm , an overload of 300 psi , applied for a period of one day , results in an uncertainty in the pressure of , at most , one millimeter of mercury .
Transport properties of air .
A 6-year study of the transport properties of air at elevated temperatures has been completed .
This project was carried out under sponsorship of the Ballistic Missile Division of the Air Research and Development Command , U.S. Air Force , and had as its goal the investigation of the transport by diffusion of the heat energy of chemical binding .
A significant effect discovered during the study is the existence of Prandtl numbers reaching values of more than unity in the nitrogen dissociation region .
Another effect discovered is the large coefficient of thermal diffusion tending to separate nitrogen from the oxygen when temperature differences straddling the nitrogen dissociation region are present .
The results of the study , based on collision integrals computed from the latest critically evaluated data on intermolecular forces in air , will be reported in the form of a table of viscosity , thermal conductivity , thermal diffusion , and diffusion coefficients at temperatures of 1,000 to 10,000 Af and of logarithm of pressure in atmospheres from Af to Af times normal density .
International cooperative activities .
In March , 1961 , representatives of the national laboratories of Australia , Canada , The Netherlands , United Kingdom , U.S.S.R. , United States , and West Germany , met at the NBS to devise means for reaching international agreement on a temperature scale between 10 and 90 Af .
As a first step toward this goal , arrangements were worked out for comparing the scales now in use through circulation of a group of standard platinum resistance thermometers for calibration by each national laboratory .
Such a group of thermometers was obtained and calibrated at the Aj .
These thermometers have now been sent to the United Kingdom for calibration at the National Physical Laboratory .
Temperature symposium .
During the last week of march 1961 , Columbus , Ohio was the site of the Fourth Symposium on Temperature , Its Measurement And Control In Science And Industry .
The Symposium , which was jointly sponsored by the American Institute of Physics , the Instrument Society of America , and the National Bureau of Standards , attracted nearly one thousand registrants , including many from abroad .
The Bureau contributed to the planning and success of the Symposium through the efforts of Mr. W. A. Wildhack , General Chairman , and Dr. C. M. Herzfeld , Program Chairman .
Dr. A. V. Astin , NBS Director , opened the 5-day session with introductory remarks , following which a total of twenty-six papers were given throughout the week by NBS scientists , from both the Washington and Boulder Laboratories .
2.1.6 .
Atomic physics
In addition to the basic programs in wavelength standards , spectroscopy , solid state physics , interactions of the free electron and atomic constants which are necessary to provide the foundation for technological progress , the Bureau has strengthened its activities in laboratory astrophysics .
The programs in infrared spectroscopy are undergoing reorientation toward wavelength standards in the far infrared , the application of infrared techniques to solid state studies , and increased emphasis on high resolution instrumentation .
Two data centers have been established for the collection , indexing , critical evaluation , and dissemination of bibliographies and critical values in the fields of transition probabilities and collision cross sections .
Laboratory astrophysics .
Transition probabilities .
Under the sponsorship of the Office of Naval Research and the Advanced Research Projects Agency , a data center was established to gather and index all published information on atomic transition probabilities .
An exhaustive survey was made of the literature , and a primary reference file of approximately 600 references was catalogued .
Selected bibliographies and tables of available data are now in preparation .
A wall-stabilized high-current arc source was constructed and used to study transition probabilities of atomic hydrogen and oxygen .
This apparatus will also be used to measure transition probabilities of a large number of other elements .
A study of the hydrogen line profiles indicates that a measurement of these profiles can be used to calculate a temperature for the arc plasma that is reliable to about Af percent .
A set of tables containing spectral intensities for 39,000 lines of 70 elements , as observed in a copper matrix in a d-c arc , was completed and published .
Studies of the intensity data indicate that they may be converted to approximate transition probabilities .
These data are not of the precision obtainable by the methods previously mentioned , but the vast number of approximate values available will be useful in many areas .
Atomic energy levels .
Research continues on the very complex spectra of the rare earth elements .
New computer and automation techniques were applied to these spectra with considerable success .
( E )
In addition to the penalties provided in Title 18 , United States Code , Section 1001 , any person guilty of any act , as provided therein , with respect to any matter under this Title , shall forfeit all rights under this Title , and , if payment shall have been made or granted , the Commission shall take such action as may be necessary to recover the same .
( F )
In connection with any claim decided by the Commission pursuant to this Title in which an award is made , the Commission may , upon the written request of the claimant or any attorney heretofore or hereafter employed by such claimant , determine and apportion the just and reasonable attorney's fees for services rendered with respect to such claim , but the total amount of the fees so determined in any case shall not exceed 10 per centum of the total amount paid pursuant to the award .
Written evidence that the claimant and any such attorney have agreed to the amount of the attorney's fees shall be conclusive upon the Commission : Provided , however , That the total amount of the fees so agreed upon does not exceed 10 per centum of the total amount paid pursuant to the award .
Any fee so determined shall be entered as a part of such award , and payment thereof shall be made by the Secretary of the Treasury by deducting the amount thereof from the total amount paid pursuant to the award .
Any agreement to the contrary shall be unlawful and void .
The Commission is authorized and directed to mail to each claimant in proceedings before the Commission notice of the provisions of this subsection .
Whoever , in the United States or elsewhere , pays or offers to pay , or promises to pay , or receives on account of services rendered or to be rendered in connection with any such claim , compensation which , when added to any amount previously paid on account of such services , will exceed the amount of fees so determined by the Commission , shall be guilty of a misdemeanor , and , upon conviction thereof , shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than twelve months , or both , and if any such payment shall have been made or granted , the Commission shall take such action as may be necessary to recover the same , and , in addition thereto , any such person shall forfeit all rights under this Title .
( G )
The Attorney General shall assign such officers and employees of the Department of Justice as may be necessary to represent the United States as to any claims of the Government of the United States with respect to which the Commission has jurisdiction under this title .
Any and all payments required to be made by the Secretary of the Treasury under this title pursuant to any award made by the Commission to the Government of the United States shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts .
( H )
The Commission shall notify all claimants of the approval or denial of their claims , stating the reasons and grounds therefor , and if approved , shall notify such claimants of the amount for which such claims are approved .
Any claimant whose claim is denied , or is approved for less than the full amount of such claim , shall be entitled , under such regulations as the Commission may prescribe , to a hearing before the Commission , or its duly authorized representatives , with respect to such claim .
Upon such hearing , the Commission may affirm , modify , or revise its former action with respect to such claim , including a denial or reduction in the amount theretofore allowed with respect to such claim .
The action of the Commission in allowing or denying any claim under this title shall be final and conclusive on all questions of law and fact and not subject to review by the Secretary of State or any other official , department , agency , or establishment of the United States or by any court by mandamus or otherwise .
( I )
The Commission may in its discretion enter an award with respect to one or more items deemed to have been clearly established in an individual claim while deferring consideration and action on other items of the same claim .
( J )
The Commission shall comply with the provisons of the Administrative Procedure Act of 1946 except as otherwise specifically provided by this title .
Sec. 5 .
The Commission shall , as soon as possible , and in the order of the making of such awards , certify to the Secretary of the Treasury and to the Secretary of State copies of the awards made in favor of the Government of the United States or of nationals of the United States under this Title .
The Commission shall certify to the Secretary of State , upon his request , copies of the formal submissions of claims filed pursuant to subsection ( B ) of Section 4 of this Act for transmission to the foreign government concerned .
Sec. 6 .
The Commission shall complete its affairs in connection with settlement of United States-Yugoslav claims arising under the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 not later than December 31 , 1954 : :
Provided , That nothing in this provision shall be construed to limit the life of the Commission , or its authority to act on future agreements which may be effected under the provisions of this legislation .
Sec. 7 .
( A )
Subject to the limitations hereinafter provided , the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to pay , as prescribed by Section 8 of this Title , an amount not exceeding the principal of each award , plus accrued interests on such awards as bear interest , certified pursuant to Section 5 of this Title , in accordance with the award .
Such payments , and applications for such payments , shall be made in accordance with such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe .
( B )
There shall be deducted from the amount of each payment made pursuant to subsection ( C ) of Section 8 , as reimbursement for the expenses incurred by the United States , an amount equal to 5 per centum of such payment .
All amounts so deducted shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts .
( C )
Payments made pursuant to this Title shall be made only to the person or persons on behalf of whom the award is made , except that -- ( 1 )
if such person is deceased or is under a legal disability , payment shall be made to his legal representative : Provided , That if the total award is not over $500 and there is no qualified executor or administrator , payment may be made to the person or persons found by the Comptroller General of the United States to be entitled thereto , without the necessity of compliance with the requirements of law with respect to the administration of estates ; ;
( 2 )
in the case of a partnership or corporation , the existence of which has been terminated and on behalf of which an award is made , payment shall be made , except as provided in paragraphs ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) , to the person or persons found by the Comptroller General of the United States to be entitled thereto ; ;
( 3 )
if a receiver or trustee for any such partnership or corporation has been duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States and has not been discharged prior to the date of payment , payment shall be made to such receiver or trustee in accordance with the order of the court ; ;
( 4 )
if a receiver or trustee for any such partnership or corporation , duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States , makes an assignment of the claim , or any part thereof , with respect to which an award is made , or makes an assignment of such award , or any part thereof , payment shall be made to the assignee , as his interest may appear ; ;
and ( 5 )
in the case of any assignment of an award , or any part thereof , which is made in writing and duly acknowledged and filed , after such award is certified to the Secretary of the Treasury , payment may , in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury , be made to the assignee , as his interest may appear .
( D )
Whenever the Secretary of the Treasury , or the Comptroller General of the United States , as the case may be , shall find that any person is entitled to any such payment , after such payment shall have been received by such person , it shall be an absolute bar to recovery by any other person against the United States , its officers , agents , or employees with respect to such payment .
( E )
Any person who makes application for any such payment shall be held to have consented to all the provisions of this Title .
( F )
Nothing in the Title shall be construed as the assumption of any liability by the United States for the payment or satisfaction , in whole or in part , of any claim on behalf of any national of the United States against any foreign government .
Sec. 8 .
( A )
There are hereby created in the Treasury of the United States ( 1 ) a special fund to be known as the Yugoslav Claims Fund ; ;
and ( 2 ) such other special funds as may , in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury , be required each to be a claims fund to be known by the name of the foreign government which has entered into a settlement agreement with the Government of the United States as described in subsection ( A ) of Section 4 of this Title .
There shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit of the proper special fund all funds hereinafter specified .
All payments authorized under Section 7 of this Title shall be disbursed from the proper fund , as the case may be , and all amounts covered into the Treasury to the credit of the aforesaid funds are hereby permanently appropriated for the making of the payments authorized by Section 7 of this Title .
( B )
The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to cover into -- ( 1 )
the Yugoslav Claims Fund the sum of $17,000,000 being the amount paid by the Government of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia pursuant to the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 ; ;
( 2 )
a special fund created for that purpose pursuant to subsection ( A ) of this section any amounts hereafter paid , in United States dollars , by a foreign government which has entered into a claims settlement agreement with the Government of the United States as described in subsection ( A ) of Section 4 of this Title .
( C )
The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed out of the sums covered into any of the funds pursuant to subsection ( B ) of this section , and after making the deduction provided for in Section 7 ( B ) of this Title -- ( 1 )
to make payments in full of the principal of awards of $1,000 or less , certified pursuant to Section 5 of this Title ; ;
( 2 )
to make payments of $1,000 on the principal of each award of more than $1,000 in principal amount , certified pursuant to Section 5 of this Title ; ;
( 3 )
to make additional payment of not to exceed 25 per centum of the unpaid principal of awards in the principal amount of more than $1,000 ; ;
( 4 )
after completing the payments prescribed by paragraphs ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of this subsection , to make payments , from time to time in ratable proportions , on account of the unpaid principal of all awards in the principal amount of more than $1,000 , according to the proportions which the unpaid principal of such awards bear to the total amount in the fund available for distribution at the time such payments are made ; ;
and ( 5 )
after payment has been made of the principal amounts of all such awards , to make pro rata payments on account of accrued interest on such awards as bear interest .
( D )
The Secretary of the Treasury , upon the concurrence of the Secretary of State , is authorized and directed , out of the sum covered into the Yugoslav Claims Fund pursuant to subsection ( B ) of this section , after completing the payments of such funds pursuant to subsection ( C ) of this Section , to make payment of the balance of any sum remaining in such fund to the Government of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia to the extent required under Article 1 ( C ) of the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 .
The Secretary of State shall certify to the Secretary of the Treasury the total cost of adjudication , not borne by the claimants , attributable to the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 .
Such certification shall be final and conclusive and shall not be subject to review by any other official or department , agency , or establishment of the United States .
Sec. 9 .
There is hereby authorized to be appropriated , out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated , such sums as may be necessary to enable the Commission to carry out its functions under this Title .
Mr. Dooley .
Mr. Speaker , for several years now the commuter railroads serving our large metropolitan areas have found it increasingly difficult to render the kind of service our expanding population wants and is entitled to have .
The causes of the decline of the commuter railroads are many and complex -- high taxes , losses of revenue to Government subsidized highway and air carriers , to name but two .
And the solutions to the problems of the commuter lines have been equally varied , ranging all the way from Government ownership to complete discontinuance of this important service .
There have been a number of sound plans proposed .
But none of these has been implemented .
Instead we have stood idly by , watched our commuter railroad service decline , and have failed to offer a helping hand .
Though the number of people flowing in and out of our metropolitan areas each day has increased tremendously since World War 2 , , total annual rail commutation dropped 124 million for 1947 to 1957 .
Nowhere has this decline been more painfully evident than in the New York City area .
Here the New York Central Railroad , one of the Nation's most important carriers , has alone lost 47.6 percent of its passengers since 1949 .
At this time of crisis in our Nation's commuter railroads , a new threat to the continued operations of the New York Central has appeared in the form of the Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad's proposal for control of the Baltimore & Ohio railroads .
The New York Central has pointed out that this control , if approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission , would give the combined C. & O. - B. & O. Railroad a total of 185 points served in common with the New York Central .
Not only is this kind of duplication wasteful , but it gives the combined system the ability to take freight traffic away from the New York Central and other railroads serving the area .
The New York Central notes : ``
The freight traffic most susceptible to raiding by the C. & O. - B. & O. provides the backbone of Central's revenues .
These revenues make it possible to provide essential freight and passenger service over the entire New York Central system as well as the New York area commuter and terminal freight services .
If these services are to be maintained , the New York Central must have the revenues to make them possible '' .
The New York Central today handles 60 percent of all southbound commuter traffic coming into New York City .
This is a $14 million operation involving 3,500 employees who work on commuter traffic exclusively .
A blow to this phase of the Central's operations would have serious economic consequences not only to the railroad itself , but to the 40,000 people per day who are provided with efficient , reasonably priced transportation in and out of the city .
``
There is a workable alternative to this potentially dangerous and harmful C. & O. - B. & O. merger scheme '' --
The Central has pointed out .
``
The logic of creating a strong , balanced , competitive two-system railroad service in the East is so obvious that B. & O. was publicly committed to the approach outlined here .
Detailed studies of the plan were well underway .
Though far from completion , these studies indicated beyond a doubt that savings would result which would be of unprecedented benefit to the railroads concerned , their investors , their customers , their users , and to the public at large .
Then , abandoning the studies in the face of their promising outlook for all concerned , B. & O. entered on-again-off-again negotiations with C. & O. which resulted in the present situation .
In the light of the facts at hand , however , New York Central intends to pursue the objective of helping to create a healthy two-system eastern railroad structure in the public interest '' .
The Interstate Commerce Commission will commence its deliberations on the proposed C. & O. - B. & O. merger on June 18 .
Obviously , the Interstate Commerce Commission will not force the New York Central to further curtail its commuter operations by giving undue competitive advantages to the lines that wish to merge .
However , there is a more profound consideration to this proposed merger than profit and loss .
That is , will it serve the long-range public interest ? ?
For the past 40 years Congress has advocated a carefully planned , balanced and competitive railway system .
We must ask ourselves which of the two alternatives will help the commuter -- the two-way B. & O. - C. & O. merger , or the three-way New York Central - B. & O. - C. & O. merger .
Which will serve not only the best interest of the stockholders , but the interests of all the traveling public ? ?
Mr. Lindsay .
Mr. Speaker , I rise today to pay tribute to a great newspaper , the New York Times , on the occasion of a major change in its top executive command .
Arthur Hays Sulzberger has been a distinguished publisher of this distinguished newspaper and it is fitting that we take due notice of his major contribution to American journalism on the occasion of his retirement .
I am pleased to note that Mr. Sulzberger will continue to serve as chairman of the board of the New York Times .
Mr. Sulzberger's successor as publisher is Mr. Orvil E. Dryfoos , who is president of the New York Times Co. , and who has been with the Times since 1942 .
Mr. Dryfoos' outstanding career as a journalist guarantees that the high standards which have made the Times one of the world's great newspapers will be maintained .
I am also pleased to note that Mr. John B. Oakes , a member of the Times staff since 1946 , has been appointed as editorial page editor .
Mr. Oakes succeeds Charles Merz , editor since 1938 , who now becomes editor emeritus .
I should like at this time , Mr. Speaker , to pay warm tribute to Arthur Hays Sulzberger and Charles Merz on the occasion of their retirement from distinguished careers in American journalism .
My heartiest congratulations go to their successors , Orvil E. Dryfoos and John B. Oakes , who can be counted upon to sustain the illustrious tradition of the New York Times .
The people of the 17th District of New York , and I as their Representative in Congress , take great pride in the New York Times as one of the great and authoritative newspapers of the world .
Mr. Stratton .
Mr. Speaker , in my latest newsletter to my constituents I urged the imposition of a naval blockade of Cuba as the only effective method of preventing continued Soviet armaments from coming into the Western Hemisphere in violation of the Monroe Doctrine .
Yesterday , I had the privilege of reading a thoughtful article in the U.S. News & World Report of May 8 which discussed this type of action in more detail , including both its advantages and its disadvantages .
Under leave to extend my remarks , I include the relevant portion of my newsletter , together with the text of the article from the U.S. News & World Report : `` your Congressman , Samuel S. Stratton , reports from Washington , May 1 , 1961
.
Cuban S.S.R. : Whatever may have been the setbacks resulting from the unsuccessful attempt of the Cuban rebels to establish a beachhead on the Castro-held mainland last week , there was at least one positive benefit , and that was the clear-cut revelation to the whole world of the complete conversion of Cuba into a Russian-dominated military base .
In fact , one of the major reasons for the failure of the ill-starred expedition appears to have been a lack of full information on the extent to which Cuba has been getting this Russian military equipment .
Somehow , the pictures and stories of Soviet T-34 tanks on Cuban beaches and Russian Mig jet fighters strafing rebel troops has brought home to all of us the stark , blunt truth of what it means to have a Russian military base 90 miles away from home .
Russian tanks and planes in Cuba jeopardize the security of the United States , violate the Monroe Doctrine , and threaten the security of every other Latin American republic .
Once the full extent of this Russian military penetration of Cuba was clear , President Kennedy announced we would take whatever action was appropriate to prevent this , even if we had to go it alone .
But the Latin American republics who have been rather inclined to drag their feet on taking action against Castro also reacted swiftly last week by finally throwing Cuba off the Inter-American Defense Board .
For years the United States had been trying to get these countries to exclude Castro's representative from secret military talks .
But it took the pictures of the Migs and the T-34 tanks to do the job .
There is a new atmosphere of urgency in Washington this week .
You can see it , for example , in the extensive efforts President Kennedy has made to enlist solid bipartisan support for his actions toward both Cuba and Laos ; ;
efforts , as I see it , which are being directed , by the way , toward support for future actions , not for those already past .
What the next move will be only time , of course , will tell .
Personally , I think we ought to set up an immediate naval blockade of Cuba .
We simply can't tolerate further Russian weapons , including the possibility of long-range nuclear missiles , being located in Cuba .
Obviously , we can't stop them from coming in , however , just by talk .
A naval blockade would be thoroughly in line with the Monroe Doctrine , would be a relatively simple operation to carry out , and would bring an abrupt end to Soviet penetration of our hemisphere '' .
``
( from U.s. News & World Report , May 8 , 1961 )
next for Cuba : an arms blockade ? ?
Look at Castro now -- cockier than ever with arms and agents to threaten the Americas .
How can the United States act ? ?
Blockade is one answer offered by experts .
In it they see a way to isolate Cuba , stop infiltration , maybe finish Castro , too .
This is the question now facing President Kennedy : How to put a stop to the Soviet buildup in Cuba and to Communist infiltration of this hemisphere ? ?
On April 25 , the White House reported that a total embargo of remaining U.S. trade with Cuba was being considered .
Its aim : To undermine further Cuba's economy .
Weaken Castro .
Another strategy -- bolder and tougher -- was also attracting notice in Washington : a naval and air blockade to cut Cuba off from the world , destroy Castro .
Blockade , in the view of military and civilian experts , could restore teeth to the Monroe Doctrine .
It could halt a flood of Communist arms and strategic supplies now reaching Castro .
It could stop Cuban re-export of guns and propaganda materials to South America .
It would be the most severe reprisal , short of declared war , that the United States could invoke against Castro .
It is the strategy of blockade , therefore , that is suddenly at the center of attention of administration officials , Members of Congress , officers in the Pentagon .
As a possible course of action , it also is the center of debate and is raising many questions .
Among these questions : what would a Cuba blockade take ? ?
Military experts say a tight naval blockade off Cuban ports and at the approaches to Cuban waters would require two naval task forces , each built around an aircraft carrier with a complement of about 100 planes and several destroyers .
The Navy , on April 25 , announced it is bringing back the carrier Shangri-La from the Mediterranean , increasing to four the number of attack carriers in the vicinity of Cuba .
More than 36 other big Navy ships are no less than a day's sailing time away .
To round out the blockading force , submarines would be needed -- to locate , identify and track approaching vessels .
Land-based radar would help with this task .
So would radar picket ships .
A squadron of Navy jets and another of long-range patrol planes would add support to the carrier task forces .
Three requirements go with a blockade : It must be proclaimed ; ;
the blockading force must be powerful enough to enforce it ; ;
and it must be enforced without discrimination .
Once these conditions of international law are met , countries that try to run the blockade do so at their own risk .
Blockade runners can be stopped -- by gunfire , if necessary -- searched and held , at least temporarily .
They could be sent to U.S. ports for rulings whether cargo should be confiscated .
What could a blockade accomplish ? ?
Plenty , say the experts .
In a broad sense , it would reaffirm the Monroe Doctrine by opposing Communist interference in the Western Hemisphere .
It could , by avoiding direct intervention , provide a short-of-war strategy to meet short-of-war infiltration .
Primary target would be shipments of tanks , guns , aviation gasoline and ammunition coming from Russia and Czechoslovakia .
Shipments of arms from Western countries could similarly be seized as contraband .
In a total blockade , action could also be taken against ships bringing in chemicals , oils , textiles , and even foodstuffs .
At times , three ships a day from the Soviet bloc are unloading in Cuban ports .
From its inception in 1920 with the passage of Public Law 236 , 66th Congress , the purpose of the vocational rehabilitation program has been to assist the States , by means of grants-in-aid , to return disabled men and women to productive , gainful employment .
The authority for the program was renewed several times until the vocational rehabilitation program was made permanent as Title 5 , of the Social Security Act in 1935 .
Up to this time and for the next eight years , the services provided disabled persons consisted mainly of training , counseling , and placement on a job .
Recognizing the limitations of such a program , the 78th Congress in 1943 passed P. L. 113 , which broadened the concept of rehabilitation to include the provision of physical restoration services to remove or reduce disabilities , and which revised the financing structure .
Recent changes .
Despite the successful rehabilitation of over a half million disabled persons in the first eleven years after 1943 , the existing program was still seen to be inadequate to cope with the nation's backlog of an estimated two million disabled .
To assist the States , therefore , in rehabilitating handicapped individuals , `` so that they may prepare for and engage in remunerative employment to the extent of their capabilities '' , the 83rd Congress enacted the Vocational Rehabilitation Amendments of 1954 ( P. L. 565 ) .
These amendments to the Vocational Rehabilitation Act were designed to help provide for more specialized rehabilitation facilities , for more sheltered and `` half-way '' workshops , for greater numbers of adequately trained personnel , for more comprehensive services to individuals ( particularly to the homebound and the blind ) , and for other administrative improvements to increase the program's overall effectiveness .
Financial aspects .
Under the law as it existed until 1943 , the Federal Government made grants to the States on the basis of population , matching State expenditures on a 50-50 basis .
Under P. L. 113 , 78th Congress , the Federal Government assumed responsibility for 100% of necessary State expenditures in connection with administration and the counseling and placement of the disabled , and for 50% of the necessary costs of providing clients with rehabilitation case services .
Throughout these years , the statutory authorization was for such sums as were necessary to carry out the provisions of the Act .
The 1954 Amendments completely changed the financing of the vocational rehabilitation program , providing for a three-part grant structure -- for ( 1 ) basic support ; ;
( 2 ) extension and improvement ; ;
and ( 3 ) research , demonstrations , training and traineeships for vocational rehabilitation -- and in addition for short-term training and instruction .
The first part of the new structure -- that for supporting the basic program of vocational rehabilitation services -- is described in this Section .
Subsequent sections on grants describe the other categories of the grant structure .
The following table shows , for selected years , the authorizations , appropriations , allotment base , Federal grants to States and State matching funds for this part of the grant program :
method of distributing funds
description of formula .
In order to assist the States in maintaining basic vocational rehabilitation services , Section 2 of the amended Act provides that allotments to States for support of such services be based on ( 1 ) need , as measured by a State's population , and ( 2 ) fiscal capacity , as measured by its per capita income .
The Act further provides for a `` floor '' or minimum allotment , set at the 1954 level , which is called the `` base '' allotment , and a `` ceiling '' or maximum allotment , for each State .
It stipulates , in addition , that all amounts remaining as a result of imposing the `` ceiling '' , and not used for insuring the `` floor '' , be redistributed to those States still below their maximums .
These provisions are designed to reflect the differences in wealth and population among the States , with the objective that a vocationally handicapped person have access to needed services regardless of whether he resides in a State with a low or high per capita income or a sparsely or thickly populated State .
The provisions are also designed to avoid disruption in State programs already in operation , which might otherwise result from the allotment of funds on the basis of wealth and population alone .
Method of computing allotments .
The method used in computing the allotments is specifically set forth in the Act .
The term `` State '' means the several States , the District of Columbia , the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico ; ;
the term `` United States '' includes the several States and the District of Columbia , and excludes the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii .
The following steps are employed in calculations : 1 .
For each State ( except Puerto Rico , Guam , the Virgin Islands , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) determine average per capita income based on the last three years .
( See Source of Data , below for per capita income data to be used in this step .
) 2 .
Determine the average per capita income for the U. S. based on the last three years .
( See Source of Data , below , for per capita income data to be used in this step .
) 3 .
Determine the ratio of 50% to the average per capita income of the U. S. ( Divide 50 by the result obtained in item 2 above .
) 4 .
Determine for each State ( except the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) that percentage which bears the same ratio to 50% as the particular State's average per capita income bears to the average per capita income of the U. S. .
( Multiply the result obtained in item 3 above by the result obtained for each State in item 1 above .
) 5 .
Determine the particular State's `` allotment percentage '' .
By law this is 75% for the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico .
( Alaska and Hawaii had fixed allotment percentages in effect prior to fiscal year 1962 .
)
In all other States it is the difference obtained by subtracting from 100 the result obtained in item 4 above ; ;
except that no State shall have an allotment percentage less than 33-1/3% nor more than 75% .
If the resulting difference for the particular State is less or more than these extremes , the State's allotment percentage must be raised or lowered to the appropriate extreme .
6 .
Square each State's allotment percentage .
7 .
Determine each State's population .
( See Source of Data , below for population data to be used in this step .
) 8 .
Multiply the population of each State by the square of its allotment percentage .
( Multiply result obtained in item 7 above , by result obtained in item 6 above .
) 9 .
Determine the sum of the products obtained in item 8 above , for all the States .
( For each State , make all computations set forth in items 1 to 8 above , and then add the results obtained for each State in item 8 .
) 10 .
Determine the ratio that the amount being allotted is to the sum of the products for all the States .
( Divide the amount being allotted by the result obtained in item 9 above .
) 11 .
Determine the particular State's unadjusted allotment for the particular fiscal year .
( Multiply the State product in item 8 above by the result obtained in item 10 above .
) 12 .
Determine if the particular State's unadjusted allotment ( result obtained in item 11 above ) is greater than its maximum allotment , and if so lower its unadjusted allotment to its maximum allotment .
( Each State's unadjusted allotment for any fiscal year , which exceeds its minimum allotment described in item 13 below by a percentage greater than one and one-half times the percentage by which the sum being allotted exceeds $23,000,000 , must be reduced by the amount of the excess .
) 13 .
Determine if the particular State's unadjusted allotment ( result obtained in item 11 above ) is less than its minimum ( base ) allotment , and if so raise its unadjusted allotment to its minimum allotment .
Regardless of its unadjusted allotment , each State is guaranteed by law a minimum allotment each year equal to the allotment which it received in fiscal year 1954 -- increased by a uniform percentage of 5.4865771 which brings total 1954 allotments to all States up to $23,000,000 .
14 .
The funds recouped by reductions in item 12 above are used : first , to increase the unadjusted allotments to the specified minimum in those States where the unadjusted allotment is less than the minimum allotment ( item 13 above ) ; ;
and second , to increase uniformly the allotments to those States whose allotments are below their maximums , with adjustments to prevent the allotment of any State from thereby exceeding its maximum .
Additional note on allotments .
For the States which maintain two separate agencies -- one for the vocational rehabilitation of the blind , and one for the rehabilitation of persons other than the blind -- the Act specifies that their minimum ( base ) allotment shall be divided between the two agencies in the same proportion as it was divided in fiscal year 1954 .
Funds allotted in addition to their minimum allotment are apportioned to the two agencies as they may determine .
Matching requirements
explanation of matching formula .
As is the case with the allotment provisions for support of vocational rehabilitation services , the matching requirements are also based on a statutory formula .
Prior to 1960 , in order to provide matching for the minimum ( base ) allotment , State funds had to equal 1954 State funds .
Prior to and since 1960 the rest of the support allotment is matched at rates related to the fiscal capacity of the State , with a pivot of 40% State ( or 60% Federal ) participation in total program costs .
The percentage of Federal participation in such costs for any State is referred to in the law as that State's `` Federal share '' .
For purposes of this explanation , this percentage is referred to as the State's `` unadjusted Federal share '' .
Beginning in 1960 , the matching requirements for the base allotment are being adjusted ( upward or downward , as required ) 25% a year , so that by 1963 the entire support allotment will be matched on the basis of a 40% pivot State share , with maximum and minimum State shares of 50% and 30% , respectively .
The pre-1960 rate of Federal participation with respect to any State's base allotment , as well as the adjusted rate in effect during the 1960 - 1962 period , is designated by the statute as that State's `` adjusted Federal Share '' .
The provisions for determining a State's unadjusted Federal share are designed to reflect the varying financial resources among the States .
The purpose of the adjusted Federal share relating to the base allotment and of the transition provisions for reaching the unadjusted Federal share is to prevent dislocations from abrupt changes in matching rates .
Method of computing Federal shares .
The method used for computing the respective Federal and State shares in total program costs is specifically set forth in the Act .
The term `` State '' means the several States , the District of Columbia , the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico ; ;
the term `` United States '' includes the several States and the District of Columbia and excludes the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii .
The following steps are employed in the calculations : 1 .
For each State ( except the Virgin Islands , Guam , Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) , determine the average per capita income for the last three years .
( the same amount used in item 1 under Method Of Computing Allotments , above .
) 2 .
Determine the average per capita income for the United States for the last three years .
( The same amount used in item 2 under Method Of Computing Allotments , above .
) 3 .
Determine the ratio of 40% to the average per capita income of the United States .
( Divide 40 by the amount used in item 2 above .
) 4 .
Determine for each State ( except the Virgin Islands , Guam , Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) , that percentage which bears the same ration to 40% as the particular State's average per capita income bears to the average per capita income of the United States .
( Multiply the result obtained in item 3 above by the amount used for each State in item 1 above .
) 5 .
Determine the particular State's `` Federal Share '' .
By law this is 70% for the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico .
( Alaska and Hawaii had fixed Federal share percentages in effect prior to fiscal year 1962 .
)
In all other States it is the difference obtained by subtracting from 100 the result obtained in item 4 above ; ;
except that no State shall have a Federal share less than 50% nor more than 70% .
If the resulting difference for the particular State is less or more than these extremes , the State's Federal share must be raised or lowered to the appropriate extreme .
At the entrance side of the shelter , each roof beam is rested on the inside 4 inches of the block wall .
The outside 4-inch space is filled by mortaring blocks on edge .
The wooden bracing between the roof beams is placed flush with the inside of the wall .
Mortar is poured between this bracing and the 4-inch blocks on edge to complete the wall thickness for radiation shielding .
( For details see inset , fig. 5 .
)
The first one or two roof boards ( marked `` E '' in fig. 6 ) are slipped into place across the roof beams , from outside the shelter .
These boards are nailed to the roof beams by reaching up through the open space between the beams , from inside the shelter .
Concrete blocks are passed between the beams and put on the boards .
The roof blocks are in two layers and are not mortared together .
Work on the roof continues in this way .
The last roof boards are covered with blocks from outside the shelter .
When the roof blocks are all in place , the final rows of wall blocks are mortared into position .
The structure is complete .
( See fig. 7 .
) Building plans are on page 21 .
Solid concrete blocks , relatively heavy and dense , are used for this shelter .
These blocks are sold in various sizes so it seldom is necessary to cut a block to fit .
Solid blocks are recommended because hollow blocks would have to be filled with concrete to give effective protection .
Bricks are an alternative .
If they are used , the walls and roof should be 10 inches thick to give the same protection as the 8-inch solid concrete blocks .
The illustrations in fig. 8 show how to lay a concrete block wall .
More detailed instructions may be obtained from your local building supply houses and craftsmen .
Other sources of information include the National Concrete Masonry Association , 38 South Dearborn Street , Chicago , Ill. , the Portland Cement Association , 33 West Grand Avenue , Chicago , Ill. , and the Structural Clay Products Association , Washington , D.C. .
Aboveground double-wall shelter
An outdoor , aboveground fallout shelter also may be built with concrete blocks .
( See fig. 9 , double-wall shelter .
) Most people would have to hire a contractor to build this shelter .
Plans are on pages 22 and 23 .
This shelter could be built in regions where water or rock is close to the surface , making it impractical to build an underground shelter .
Two walls of concrete blocks are constructed at least 20 inches apart .
The space between them is filled with pit-run gravel or earth .
The walls are held together with metal ties placed in the wet mortar as the walls are built .
The roof shown here ( fig. 9 ) is a 6-inch slab of reinforced concrete , covered with at least 20 inches of pit-run gravel .
An alternate roof , perhaps more within do-it-yourself reach , could be constructed of heavy wooden roof beams , overlaid with boards and waterproofing .
It would have to be covered with at least 28 inches of pit-run gravel .
The materials for a double-wall shelter would cost about $700 .
Contractors' charges would be additional .
The shelter would provide almost absolute fallout protection .
Pre-shaped metal shelter
Pre-shaped corrugated metal sections or pre-cast concrete can be used for shelters either above or below ground .
These are particularly suitable for regions where water or rock is close to the surface .
They form effective fallout shelters when mounded over with earth , as shown in figure 10 .
Materials for this shelter would cost about $700 .
A contractor probably would be required to help build it .
His charges would be added to the cost of materials .
This shelter , as shown on page 24 , would provide almost absolute protection from fallout radiation .
An alternate hatchway entrance , shown on page 25 , would reduce the cost of materials $50 to $100 .
The National Lumber Manufacturers Association , Washington , D. C. , is developing plans to utilize specially treated lumber for underground shelter construction .
The Structural Clay Products Institute , Washington , D.C. , is working to develop brick and clay products suitable for shelter construction .
Underground concrete shelter
An underground reinforced concrete shelter can be built by a contractor for about $1,000 to $1,500 , depending on the type of entrance .
The shelter shown would provide almost absolute fallout protection .
The illustration ( fig. 11 ) shows this shelter with the roof at ground level and mounded over .
The same shelter could be built into an embankment or below ground level .
Plans for the shelter , with either a stairway or hatchway entrance , are shown on pages 26 and 27 .
Another type of shelter which gives excellent fallout protection can be built as an added room to the basement of a home under construction .
It would add about $500 to the total cost of the home .
The shelter illustrated in figure 12 is based on such a room built in a new home in the Washington , D.C. area in the Spring of 1959 .
Important considerations common to each type of shelter are : 1 .
Arrangement of the entrance .
2 .
Ventilation .
3 .
Radio reception .
4 .
Lighting .
The entrance must have at least one right-angle turn .
Radiation scatters somewhat like light .
Some will go around a corner .
The rest continues in a straight line .
Therefore , sharp turns in a shelter entrance will reduce radiation intensity inside the shelter .
Ventilation is provided in a concrete block basement shelter by vents in the wall and by the open entrance .
A blower may be installed to increase comfort .
A blower is essential for the double-wall shelter and for the underground shelters .
It should provide not less than 5 cubic feet per minute of air per person .
Vent pipes also are necessary ( as shown in figs. 9 , 10 , and 11 ) , but filters are not .
Radio reception is cut down by the shielding necessary to keep out radiation .
As soon as the shelter is completed a radio reception check must be made .
It probably will be necessary to install an outside antenna , particularly to receive CONELRAD broadcasts .
Lighting is an important consideration .
Continuous low-level lighting may be provided in the shelter by means of a 4-cell hot-shot battery to which is wired a 150-milliampere flashlight-type bulb .
Tests have shown that such a device , with a fresh battery , will furnish light continuously for at least 10 days .
With a spare battery , a source of light for 2 weeks or more would be assured .
A flashlight or electric lantern also should be available for those periods when a brighter light is needed .
There should be a regular electrical outlet in the shelter as power may continue in many areas .
Other considerations .
-- If there are outside windows in the basement corner where you build a shelter , they should be shielded as shown in the Appendix , page 29 .
Other basement windows should be blocked when an emergency threatens .
Basement walls that project above the ground should be shielded as shown in the Appendix , page 29 .
In these shelters the entrance should be not more than 2 feet wide .
Bunks , or materials to build them , may have to be put inside the enclosure before the shelter walls are completed .
The basement or belowground shelters also will serve for tornado or hurricane protection .
3 .
Living in a shelter
The radioactivity of fallout decays rapidly at first .
Forty-nine hours after an atomic burst the radiation intensity is only about 1 percent of what it was an hour after the explosion .
But the radiation may be so intense at the start that one percent may be extremely dangerous .
Therefore , civil defense instructions received over CONELRAD or by other means should be followed .
A battery-powered radio is essential .
Radiation instruments suitable for home use are available , and would be of value in locating that portion of the home which offers the best protection against fallout radiation .
There is a possibility that battery-powered radios with built-in radiation meters may become available .
One instrument thus would serve both purposes .
Your local civil defense will gather its own information and will receive broad information from State and Federal sources .
It will tell you as soon as possible :
How long to stay in your shelter ; ;
How soon you may go outdoors ; ;
How long you may stay outside .
You should be prepared to stay in your shelter full time for at least several days and to make it your home for 14 days or longer .
A checklist in the Appendix ( ( page 30 ) tells what is needed .
Families with children will have particular problems .
They should provide for simple recreation .
There should be a task for everyone and these tasks should be rotated .
Part of the family should be sleeping while the rest is awake .
To break the monotony it may be necessary to invent tasks that will keep the family busy .
Records such as diaries can be kept .
The survival of the family will depend largely on information received by radio .
A record should be kept of the information and instructions , including the time and date of broadcast .
Family rationing probably will be necessary .
Blowers should be operated periodically on a regular schedule .
There will come a time in a basement shelter when the radiation has decayed enough to allow use of the whole basement .
However , as much time as possible should be spent within the shelter to hold radiation exposure to a minimum .
The housekeeping problems of living in a shelter will begin as soon as the shelter is occupied .
Food , medical supplies , utensils , and equipment , if not already stored in the shelter , must be quickly gathered up and carried into it .
After the family has settled in the shelter , the housekeeping rules should be spelled out by the adult in charge .
Sanitation in the confines of the family shelter will require much thought and planning .
Provision for emergency toilet facilities and disposal of human wastes will be an unfamiliar problem .
A covered container such as a kitchen garbage pail might do as a toilet .
A 10-gallon garbage can , with a tightly fitting cover , could be used to keep the wastes until it is safe to leave the shelter .
Water rationing will be difficult and should be planned carefully .
A portable electric heater is advisable for shelters in cold climates .
It would take the chill from the shelter in the beginning .
Even if the electric power fails after an attack , any time that the heater has been used will make the shelter that much more comfortable .
Body heat in the close quarters will help keep up the temperature .
Warm clothing and bedding , of course , are essential .
Open-flame heating or cooking should be avoided .
A flame would use up air .
Some families already have held weekend rehearsals in their home shelters to learn the problems and to determine for themselves what supplies they would need .
4 .
If an attack finds you without a prepared shelter
Few areas , if any , are as good as prepared shelters but they are worth knowing about .
A family dwelling without a basement provides some natural shielding from fallout radiation .
On the ground floor the radiation would be about half what it is outside .
The best protection would be on the ground floor in the central part of the house .
A belowground basement can cut the fallout radiation to one-tenth of the outside level .
The safest place is the basement corner least exposed to windows and deepest below ground .
If there is time after the warning , the basement shielding could be improved substantially by blocking windows with bricks , dirt , books , magazines , or other heavy material .
5 .
Shelter in apartment buildings
Large apartment buildings of masonry or concrete provide better natural shelter than the usual family dwellings .
In general , such apartments afford more protection than smaller buildings because their walls are thick and there is more space .
The central area of the ground floor of a heavily constructed apartment building , with concrete floors , should provide more fallout protection than the ordinary basement of a family dwelling .
The basement of such an apartment building may provide as much natural protection as the specially constructed concrete block shelter recommended for the basement of a family dwelling .
The Federal Government is aiding local governments in several places to survey residential , commercial and industrial buildings to determine what fallout protection they would provide , and for how many people .
The problem for the city apartment dweller is primarily to plan the use of existing space .
Such planning will require the cooperation of other occupants and of the apartment management .
A former Du Pont official became a General Motors vice president and set about maximizing Du Pont's share of the General Motors market .
Lines of communications were established between the two companies and several Du Pont products were actively promoted .
Within a few years various Du Pont manufactured items were filling the entire requirements of from four to seven of General Motors' eight operating divisions .
The Fisher Body division , long controlled by the Fisher brothers under a voting trust even though General Motors owned a majority of its stock , followed an independent course for many years , but by 1947 and 1948 `` resistance had collapsed '' and its purchases from Du Pont `` compared favorably '' with purchases by other General Motors divisions .
Competitors came to receive higher percentage of General Motors business in later years , but it is `` likely '' that this trend stemmed `` at least in part '' from the needs of General Motors outstripping Du Pont's capacity .
``
The fact that sticks out in this voluminous record is that the bulk of Du Pont's production has always supplied the largest part of the requirements of the one customer in the automobile industry connected to Du Pont by a stock interest .
The inference is overwhelming that Du Pont's commanding position was promoted by its stock interest and was not gained solely on competitive merit '' .
353 U. S. , at 605 .
This Court agreed with the trial court `` that considerations of price , quality and service were not overlooked by either Du Pont or General Motors '' .
353 U. S. , at 606 .
However , it determined that neither this factor , nor `` the fact that all concerned in high executive posts in both companies acted honorably and fairly , each in the honest conviction that his actions were in the best interests of his own company and without any design to overreach anyone , including Du Pont's competitors '' , outweighed the Government's claim for relief .
This claim , as submitted to the District Court and dismissed by it , 126 F.Supp.235 , alleged violation not only of 7 of the Clayton Act , but also of 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act .
The latter provisions proscribe any contract , combination , or conspiracy in restraint of interstate or foreign trade , and monopolization of , or attempts , combinations , or conspiracies to monopolize , such trade .
However , this Court put to one side without consideration the Government's appeal from the dismissal of its Sherman Act allegations .
It rested its decision solely on 7 , which reads in pertinent part : ``
No corporation engaged in commerce shall acquire , directly or indirectly , the whole or any part of the stock or other share capital of another corporation engaged also in commerce , where the effect of such acquisition may be to substantially lessen competition between the corporation whose stock is so acquired and the corporation making the acquisition , or to restrain such commerce in any section or community , or tend to create a monopoly of any line of commerce .
This section shall not apply to corporations purchasing such stock solely for investment and not using the same by voting or otherwise to bring about , or in attempting to bring about , the substantial lessening of competition .
''
The purpose of this provision was thus explained in the Court's opinion : ``
Section 7 is designed to arrest in its incipiency not only the substantial lessening of competition from the acquisition by one corporation of the whole or any part of the stock of a competing corporation , but also to arrest in their incipiency restraints or monopolies in a relevant market which , as a reasonable probability , appear at the time of suit likely to result from the acquisition by one corporation of all or any part of the stock of any other corporation .
The section is violated whether or not actual restraints or monopolies , or the substantial lessening of competition , have occurred or are intended .
'' 353 U. S. , at 589 .
Thus , a finding of conspiracy to restrain trade or attempt to monopolize was excluded from the Court's decision .
Indeed , as already noted , the Court proceeded on the assumption that the executives involved in the dealings between Du Pont and General Motors acted `` honorably and fairly '' and exercised their business judgment only to serve what they deemed the best interests of their own companies .
This , however , did not bar finding that Du Pont had become pre-eminent as a supplier of automotive fabrics and finishes to General Motors ; ;
that these products constituted a `` line of commerce '' within the meaning of the Clayton Act ; ;
that General Motors' share of the market for these products was substantial ; ;
and that competition for this share of the market was endangered by the financial relationship between the two concerns : ``
The statutory policy of fostering free competition is obviously furthered when no supplier has an advantage over his competitors from an acquisition of his customer's stock likely to have the effects condemned by the statute .
We repeat , that the test of a violation of 7 is whether , at the time of suit , there is a reasonable probability that the acquisition is likely to result in the condemned restraints .
The conclusion upon this record is inescapable that such likelihood was proved as to this acquisition .
'' 353 U. S. , at 607 .
On the basis of the findings which led to this conclusion , the Court remanded the case to the District Court to determine the appropriate relief .
The sole guidance given the Court for discharging the task committed to it was this : ``
The judgment must therefore be reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court for a determination , after further hearing , of the equitable relief necessary and appropriate in the public interest to eliminate the effects of the acquisition offensive to the statute .
The District Courts , in the framing of equitable decrees , are clothed ' with large discretion to model their judgements to fit the exigencies of the particular case .
International Salt Co. v. United States , 332 U. S. 392 , 400-401 '' .
353 U. S. , at 607-608 .
This brings us to the course of the proceedings in the District Court .
2 .
This Court's judgment was filed in the District Court on July 18 , 1957 .
The first pretrial conference -- held to appoint amici curiae to represent the interest of the stockholders of Du Pont and General Motors and to consider the procedure to be followed in the subsequent hearings -- took place on September 25 , 1957 .
At the outset , the Government's spokesman explained that counsel for the Government and for Du Pont had already held preliminary discussions with a view to arriving at a relief plan that both sides could recommend to the court .
Du Pont , he said , had proposed disenfranchisement of its General Motors stock along with other restrictions on the Du Pont - General Motors relationship .
The Government , deeming these suggestions inadequate , had urged that any judgment include divestiture of Du Pont's shares of General Motors .
Counsel for the Government invited Du Pont's views on this proposal before recommending a specific program , but stated that if the court desired , or if counsel for Du Pont thought further discussion would not be profitable , the Government was prepared to submit a plan within thirty days .
Counsel for Du Pont indicated a preference for the submission of detailed plans by both sides at an early date .
No previous antitrust case , he said , had involved interests of such magnitude or presented such complex problems of relief .
The submission of detailed plans would place the issues before the court more readily than would discussion of divestiture or disenfranchisement in the abstract .
The Court adopted this procedure with an appropriate time schedule for carrying it out .
The Government submitted its proposed decree on October 25 , 1957 .
The plan called for divestiture by Du Pont of its 63,000,000 shares of General Motors stock by equal annual distributions to its stockholders , as a dividend , over a period of ten years .
Christiana Securities Company and Delaware Realty & Investment Company , major stockholders in Du Pont , and the stockholders of Delaware were dealt with specially by provisions requiring the annual sale by a trustee , again over a ten-year period , of Du Pont's General Motors stock allocable to them , as well as any General Motors stock which Christiana and Delaware owned outright .
If , in the trustee's judgment , `` reasonable market conditions '' did not prevail during any given year , he was to be allowed to petition the court for an extension of time within the ten-year period .
In addition , the right to vote the General Motors stock held by Du Pont was to be vested in Du Pont's stockholders , other than Christiana and Delaware and the stockholders of Delaware ; ;
Du Pont , Christiana , and Delaware were to be enjoined from acquiring stock in or exercising control over General Motors ; ;
Du Pont , Christiana , and Delaware were to be prohibited to have any director or officer in common with General Motors , and vice versa ; ;
and General Motors and Du Pont were to be ordered to terminate any agreement that provided for the purchase by General Motors of any specified percentage of its requirements of any Du Pont manufactured product , or for the grant of exclusive patent rights , or for a grant by General Motors to Du Pont of a preferential right to make or sell any chemical discovery of General Motors , or for the maintenance of any joint commercial enterprise by the two companies .
On motion of the Amici Curiae , the court directed that a ruling be obtained from the Commissioner of Internal Revenue as to the federal income tax consequences of the Government's plan .
On May 9 , 1958 , the Commissioner announced his rulings .
The annual dividends paid to Du Pont stockholders in shares of General Motors stock would be taxable as ordinary income to the extent of Du Pont's earnings and profits .
The measure , for federal income tax purposes , of the dividend to individual stockholders would be the fair market value of the shares at the time of each annual distribution .
In the case of taxpaying corporate stockholders , the measure would be the lesser of the fair market value of the shares or Du Pont's tax basis for them , which is approximately $2.09 per share .
The forced sale of the General Motors stock owned by or allocable to Christiana , Delaware , and the stockholders of Delaware , and deposited with the trustee , would result in a tax to those parties at the capital gains rate .
Du Pont's counterproposal was filed on May 14 , 1958 .
Under its plan Du Pont would retain its General Motors shares but be required to pass on to its stockholders the right to vote those shares .
Christiana and Delaware would , in turn , be required to pass on the voting rights to the General Motors shares allocable to them to their own stockholders .
Du Pont would be enjoined from having as a director , officer , or employee anyone who was simultaneously an officer or employee of General Motors , and no director , officer , or employee of Du Pont could serve as a director of General Motors without court approval .
Du Pont would be denied the right to acquire any additional General Motors stock except through General Motors' distributions of stock or subscription rights to its stockholders .
On June 6 , 1958 , General Motors submitted its objections to the Government's proposal .
It argued , inter alia , that a divestiture order would severely depress the market value of the stock of both General Motors and Du Pont , with consequent serious loss and hardship to hundreds of thousands of innocent investors , among them thousands of small trusts and charitable institutions ; ;
that there would be a similar decline in the market values of other automotive and chemical stocks , with similar losses to the stockholders of those companies ; ;
that the tremendous volume of General Motors stock hanging over the market for ten years would hamper the efforts of General Motors and other automobile manufacturers to raise equity capital ; ;
and that all this would have a serious adverse effect on the entire stock market and on general business activity .
General Motors comprehensively contended that the Government plan would not be `` in the public interest '' as required by the mandate of this Court .
The decrees proposed by the amici curiae were filed in August of 1958 .
These plans , like Du Pont's , contained provisions for passing the vote on Du Pont's General Motors shares on to the ultimate stockholders of Du Pont , Christiana , and Delaware , except that officers and directors of the three companies , their spouses , and other people living in their households , as well as other specified persons , were to be totally disenfranchised .
Both plans also prohibited common directors , officers , or employees between Du Pont , Christiana , and Delaware , on the one hand , and General Motors on the other .
It is not a medieval mental quirk or an attitude `` unnourished by sense '' to believe that husbands and wives should not be subjected to such a risk , or that such a possibility should not be permitted to endanger the confidentiality of the marriage relationship .
While it is easy enough to ridicule Hawkins' pronouncement in Pleas Of The Crown from a metaphysical point of view , the concept of the `` oneness '' of a married couple may reflect an abiding belief that the communion between husband and wife is such that their actions are not always to be regarded by the criminal law as if there were no marriage .
By making inroads in the name of law enforcement into the protection which Congress has afforded to the marriage relationship , the Court today continues in the path charted by the recent decision in Wyatt v. United States , 362 U.S. 525 , where the Court held that , under the circumstances of that case , a wife could be compelled to testify against her husband over her objection .
One need not waver in his belief in virile law enforcement to insist that there are other things in American life which are also of great importance , and to which even law enforcement must accommodate itself .
One of these is the solidarity and the confidential relationship of marriage .
The Court's opinion dogmatically asserts that the husband-wife conspiracy doctrine does not in fact protect this relationship , and that hence the doctrine `` enthrones an unreality into a rule of law '' .
I am not easily persuaded that a rule accepted by so many people for so many centuries can be so lightly dismissed .
But in any event , I submit that the power to depose belongs to Congress , not to this Court .
I dissent .
Petitioner , who claims to be a conscientious objector , was convicted of violating 12a of the Universal Military Training and Service Act by refusing to be inducted into the armed forces .
He claims that he was denied due process of law in violation of the Fifth Amendment , because ( 1 ) at a hearing before a hearing officer of the Department of Justice , he was not permitted to rebut statements attributed to him by the local board , and ( 2 ) at the trial , he was denied the right to have the hearing officer's report and the original report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation as to his claim .
Held : On the record in this case , the administrative procedures prescribed by the Act were fully complied with ; ;
petitioner was not denied due process ; ;
and his conviction is sustained .
Pp. 60-66 .
( A )
Petitioner was not denied due process in the administrative proceedings , because the statement in question was in his file , to which he had access , and he had opportunities to rebut it both before the hearing officer of the Department of Justice and before the appeal board .
Pp. 62-63 .
( B )
Petitioner was not entitled to have the hearing officer's notes and report , especially since he failed to show any particular need for them and he did have a copy of the Department of Justice's recommendation to the appeal board .
Pp. 63-64 .
( C )
Petitioner was not entitled , either in the administrative hearing at the Department of Justice or at his trial , to inspect the original report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , since he was furnished a resume of it , did not challenge its accuracy , and showed no particular need for the original report .
Pp. 64-66 .
Haydn C. Covington argued the cause and filed a brief for petitioner .
Daniel M. Friedman argued the cause for the United States .
On the brief were Solicitor General Rankin , Assistant Attorney General Wilkey , Beatrice Rosenberg and J. F. Bishop .
Mr. Justice Clark delivered the opinion of the Court .
This is a prosecution for refusal to be inducted into the armed services , in violation of the provisions of the Universal Military Training and Service Act , 62 Stat. 604,622 , 50 , U.S.C. App. Aj 462 ( A ) .
Petitioner , who claims to be a conscientious objector , contends that he was denied due process , both in the proceedings before a hearing officer of the Department of Justice and at trial .
He says that he was not permitted to rebut before the hearing officer statements attributed to him by the local board , and , further , that he was denied at trial the right to have the Department of Justice hearing officer's report and the original report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation as to his claim -- all in violation of the Fifth Amendment .
The trial judge decided that the administrative procedures of the Act were fully complied with and refused to require the production of such documents .
Petitioner was found guilty and sentenced to 15 months' imprisonment .
The Court of Appeals affirmed .
269 F. 2d 613 .
We granted certiorari in view of the importance of the questions in the administration of the Act .
361 U. S. 899 .
We have concluded that petitioner's claims are controlled by the rationale of Gonzales v. United States , 348 U.S. 407 ( 1955 ) , and United States v. Nugent , 346 U.S. 1 ( 1953 ) , and therefore affirm the judgment .
Petitioner registered with Local Board No. 9 , Boulder , Colorado , on March 17 , 1952 .
His answers to the classification questionnaire reflected that he was a minister of Jehovah's Witnesses , employed at night by a sugar producer .
He claimed 4-d classification as a minister of religion , devoting a minimum of 100 hours a month to preaching .
On November 13 , 1952 , he was classified in Class 1-a .
On November 22 , 1952 , he wrote the Board , protesting this classification .
He again stated that he was `` a regular minister '' ; ;
that he was `` devoting an average of 100 hours a month to actual preaching publicly '' , in addition to 50 to 75 hours in other ministerial duties , and that he opposed war in any form .
Thereafter he was classified 1-o .
On April 1 , 1953 , after some six months of full-time `` pioneering '' , petitioner discontinued devoting 100 hours a month to preaching , but failed to so notify his local board .
In a periodic review , the local board on July 30 , 1953 , reclassified him 1-a and upheld this classification after a personal appearance by petitioner , because of his willingness to kill in defense of his church and home .
Upon administrative approval of the reclassification , he was ordered to report for induction on June 11 , 1956 , but failed to do so .
He was not prosecuted , however , and his case was subsequently reopened , in the light of Sicurella v. United States , 348 U.S. 385 ( 1955 ) .
He was again reclassified 1-a by the local board .
There followed a customary Department of Justice hearing , at which petitioner appeared .
In his report to the Attorney General , the hearing officer suggested that the petitioner be exempt only from combatant training and service .
On March 21 , 1957 , however , the Department recommended approval of the 1-a classification .
Its ground for this recommendation was that , while petitioner claimed before the local board August 17 , 1956 ( as evidenced by its memorandum in his file of that date ) , that he was devoting 100 hours per month to actual preaching , the headquarters of the Jehovah's Witnesses reported that he was no longer doing so and , on the contrary , had relinquished both his Pioneer and Bible Student Servant positions .
It reported that he now devoted only some 6-1/2 hours per month to public preaching and from 20 to 25 hours per month to church activities .
His claim was therefore `` so highly exaggerated '' , the Department concluded , that it `` cast doubt upon his veracity and , consequently , upon his sincerity and good faith '' .
The appeal board furnished petitioner a copy of the recommendation .
In his answer thereto , he advised the Board that he had made no such statement in 1956 , and asserted that his only claim to `` pioneering '' was in 1952 .
The appeal board , however , unanimously concurred in the Department's recommendation .
Upon return of the file to the local board , petitioner was again ordered to report for induction and this prosecution followed his failure to do so .
Petitioner first contends that the Department denied him procedural due process by not giving him timely opportunity , before its final recommendation to the appeal board , to answer the statement of the local board as to his claim of devoting 100 hours to actual preaching .
But the statement of the local board attributing this claim to petitioner was in his file .
He admitted that he knew it was open to him at all times , and he could have rebutted it before the hearing officer .
This he failed to do , asserting that he did not know it to be in his file .
Apparently he never took the trouble to find out .
Nevertheless he had ample opportunity to contest the statement before the appeal board .
After the recommendation of the Department is forwarded to the appeal board , that is the appropriate place for a registrant to lodge his denial .
This he did .
We found in Gonzales v. United States , supra , that this was the controlling reason why copies of the recommendation should be furnished a registrant .
We said there that it was necessary `` that a registrant be given an opportunity to rebut ( the Department's ) recommendation when it comes to the Appeal Board , the agency with the ultimate responsibility for classification '' .
348 U.S. , at 412 .
We fail to see how such procedure resulted in any prejudice to petitioner's contention , which was considered by the appeal board and denied by it .
As was said in Gonzales , `` it is the Appeal Board which renders the selective service determination considered ' final ' in the courts , not to be overturned unless there is no basis in fact .
Estep v. United States , 327 U.S. 114 '' .
348 U. S. , at 412-413 .
But there are other contentions which might be considered more difficult .
At his trial , petitioner sought to secure through subpoena duces tecum the longhand notes of the Department's hearing officer , Evensen , as well as his report thereon .
Petitioner also claimed at trial the right to inspect the original Federal Bureau of Investigation reports to the Department of Justice .
He alleged no specific procedural errors or evidence withheld ; ;
nor did he elaborate just what favorable evidence the Federal Bureau of Investigation reports might disclose .
Section 6(j) of the Act , as we have held , does require the Department's recommendation to be placed in a registrant's file .
Gonzales v. United States , supra .
But there is nothing in the Act requiring the hearing officer's report to be likewise turned over to the registrant .
While the regulations formerly required that the hearing officer's report be placed in the registrant's file , this requirement was eliminated in 1952 .
Moreover , the hearing officer's report is but intradepartmental , is directed to the Attorney General and , of course , is not the recommendation of the Department .
It is not essentially different from a memorandum of an attorney in the Department of Justice , of which the Attorney General receives many , and to which he may give his approval or rejection .
It is but part of the whole process within the Department that goes into the making of the final recommendation to the appeal board .
It is also significant that neither this report nor the hearing officer's notes were furnished to the appeal board .
Hence the petitioner had full opportunity to traverse the only conclusions of the Department on file with the Board .
Petitioner knew that the Department's recommendation was based not on the hearing officer's report but on the statement of the local board in his file .
Having had every opportunity to rebut the finding of the local board before both the hearing officer and the appeal board , petitioner cannot now claim that he was denied due process because he did not succeed .
It appears to us that the same reasoning applies to the production of the hearing officer's report and notes at the trial .
In addition , petitioner has failed to show any particular need for the report and notes .
While there are now allegations of the withholding of `` favorable evidence developed at the hearing '' and a denial of a `` full and fair hearing '' , no such claim was made by petitioner at any stage of the administrative process .
Moreover , his testimony at trial never developed any such facts .
In the light of these circumstances , as well as the fact that the issue at trial in this respect centered entirely on the Department's recommendation , which petitioner repudiated but which both the appeal board and the courts below found supported by the record , we find no relevancy in the hearing officer's report and notes .
Finally petitioner says that he was entitled to inspect the FBI report during the proceedings before the hearing officer as well as at the trial .
He did receive a resume of it -- the same that was furnished the appeal board -- and he made no claim of its inaccuracy .
Even now no such claim is asserted .
He bases his present contention on the general right to explore , indicating that he hopes to find some discrepancy in the resume .
But this is fully answered by United States v. Nugent , supra .
There we held `` that the statutory scheme for review , within the selective service system , entitles [ conscientious objectors ] to no guarantee that the FBI reports must be produced for their inspection '' .
346 U.S. , at 5-6 .
Even if we were not bound by Nugent , petitioner here would not be entitled to the report .
The recommendation of the Department -- as well as the decision of the appeal board -- was based entirely on the local board file , not on an FBI report .
Foreign policy in its total context
With this enlarged role in mind , I should like to make a few suggestions : What we in the United States do or do not do will make a very large difference in what happens in the rest of the world .
We in this Department must think about foreign policy in its total context .
We cannot regard foreign policy as something left over after defense policy or trade policy or fiscal policy has been extracted .
Foreign policy is the total involvement of the American people with peoples and governments abroad .
That means that , if we are to achieve a new standard of leadership , we must think in terms of the total context of our situation .
It is the concern of the Department of State that the American people are safe and secure -- defense is not a monopoly concern of the Department of Defense .
It is also the concern of the Department of State that our trading relationships with the rest of the world are vigorous , profitable , and active -- this is not just a passing interest or a matter of concern only to the Department of Commerce .
We can no longer rely on interdepartmental machinery `` somewhere upstairs '' to resolve differences between this and other departments .
Assistant Secretaries of State will now carry an increased burden of active formulation and coordination of policies .
Means must be found to enable us to keep in touch as regularly and as efficiently as possible with our colleagues in other departments concerned with foreign policy .
I think we need to concern ourselves also with the timeliness of action .
Every policy officer cannot help but be a planning officer .
Unless we keep our eyes on the horizon ahead , we shall fail to bring ourselves on target with the present .
The movement of events is so fast , the pace so severe , that an attempt to peer into the future is essential if we are to think accurately about the present .
If there is anything which we can do in the executive branch of the Government to speed up the processes by which we come to decisions on matters on which we must act promptly , that in itself would be a major contribution to the conduct of our affairs .
Action taken today is often far more valuable than action taken several months later in response to a situation then out of control .
There will of course be times for delay and inaction .
What I am suggesting is that when we delay , or when we fail to act , we do so intentionally and not through inadvertence or through bureaucratic or procedural difficulties .
I also hope that we can do something about reducing the infant mortality rate of ideas -- an affliction of all bureaucracies .
We want to stimulate ideas from the bottom to the top of the Department .
We want to make sure that our junior colleagues realize that ideas are welcome , that initiative goes right down to the bottom and goes all the way to the top .
I hope no one expects that only Presidential appointees are looked upon as sources of ideas .
The responsibility for taking the initiative in generating ideas is that of every officer in the Department who has a policy function , regardless of rank .
Further , I would hope that we could pay attention to little things .
While observing the operations of our Government in various parts of the world , I have felt that in many situations where our policies were good we have tended to ignore minor problems which spoiled our main effort .
To cite only a few examples : The wrong man in the wrong position , perhaps even in a junior position abroad , can be a source of great harm to our policy ; ;
the attitudes of a U.N. delegate who experiences difficulty in finding adequate housing in New York City , or of a foreign diplomat in similar circumstances in our Capital , can easily be directed against the United States and all that it stands for .
Dozens of seemingly small matters go wrong all over the world .
Sometimes those who know about them are too far down the line to be able to do anything about them .
I would hope that we could create the recognition in the Department and overseas that those who come across little things going wrong have the responsibility for bringing these to the attention of those who can do something about them .
If the Department of State is to take primary responsibility for foreign policy in Washington , it follows that the ambassador is expected to take charge overseas .
This does not mean in a purely bureaucratic sense but in an active , operational , interested , responsible fashion .
He is expected to know about what is going on among the representatives of other agencies who are stationed in his country .
He is expected to supervise , to encourage , to direct , to assist in any way he can .
If any official operation abroad begins to go wrong , we shall look to the ambassador to find out why and to get suggestions for remedial action .
The problems of a policy officer
It occurred to me that you might be interested in some thoughts which I expressed privately in recent years , in the hope of clearing up a certain confusion in the public mind about what foreign policy is all about and what it means , and of developing a certain compassion for those who are carrying such responsibilities inside Government .
I tried to do so by calling to their attention some of the problems that a senior departmental policy officer faces .
This means practically everybody in this room .
Whether it will strike home for you or not will be for you to determine .
The senior policy officer may be moved to think hard about a problem by any of an infinite variety of stimuli : an idea in his own head , the suggestions of a colleague , a question from the Secretary or the President , a proposal by another department , a communication from a foreign government or an American ambassador abroad , the filing of an item for the agenda of the United Nations or of any other of dozens of international bodies , a news item read at the breakfast table , a question to the President or the Secretary at a news conference , a speech by a Senator or Congressman , an article in a periodical , a resolution from a national organization , a request for assistance from some private American interests abroad , et cetera , ad infinitum .
The policy officer lives with his antennae alerted for the questions which fall within his range of responsibility .
His first thought is about the question itself : Is there a question here for American foreign policy , and , if so , what is it ? ?
For he knows that the first and sometimes most difficult job is to know what the question is -- that when it is accurately identified it sometimes answers itself , and that the way in which it is posed frequently shapes the answer .
Chewing it over with his colleagues and in his own mind , he reaches a tentative identification of the question -- tentative because it may change as he explores it further and because , if no tolerable answer can be found , it may have to be changed into one which can be answered .
Meanwhile he has been thinking about the facts surrounding the problem , facts which he knows can never be complete , and the general background , much of which has already been lost to history .
He is appreciative of the expert help available to him and draws these resources into play , taking care to examine at least some of the raw material which underlies their frequently policy-oriented conclusions .
He knows that he must give the expert his place , but he knows that he must also keep him in it .
He is already beginning to box the compass of alternative lines of action , including doing nothing .
He knows that he is thinking about action in relation to a future which can be perceived but dimly through a merciful fog .
But he takes his bearings from the great guidelines of policy , well-established precedents , the commitments of the United States under international charters and treaties , basic statutes , and well-understood notions of the American people about how we are to conduct ourselves , in policy literature such as country papers and National Security Council papers accumulated in the Department .
He will not be surprised to find that general principles produce conflicting results in the factual situation with which he is confronted .
He must think about which of these principles must take precedence .
He will know that general policy papers written months before may not fit his problem because of crucial changes in circumstance .
He is aware that every moderately important problem merges imperceptibly into every other problem .
He must deal with the question of how to manage a part when it cannot be handled without relation to the whole -- when the whole is too large to grasp .
He must think of others who have a stake in the question and in its answer .
Who should be consulted among his colleagues in the Department or other departments and agencies of the Government ? ?
Which American ambassadors could provide helpful advice ? ?
Are private interests sufficiently involved to be consulted ? ?
What is the probable attitude of other governments , including those less directly involved ? ?
How and at what stage and in what sequence are other governments to be consulted ? ?
If action is indicated , what kind of action is relevant to the problem ? ?
The selection of the wrong tools can mean waste , at best , and at worst an unwanted inflammation of the problem itself .
Can the President or the Secretary act under existing authority , or will new legislation and new money be required ? ?
Should the action be unilateral or multilateral ? ?
Is the matter one for the United Nations or some other international body ? ?
For , if so , the path leads through a complex process of parliamentary diplomacy which adds still another dimension to the problem .
Respect for the opinions of mankind
What type of action can hope to win public support , first in this country and then abroad ? ?
For the policy officer will know that action can almost never be secret and that in general the effectiveness of policy will be conditioned by the readiness of the country to sustain it .
He is interested in public opinion for two reasons : first , because it is important in itself , and , second , because he knows that the American public cares about a decent respect for the opinions of mankind .
And , given probable public attitudes -- about which reasonably good estimates can be made -- what action is called for to insure necessary support ? ?
May I add a caution on this particular point ? ?
We do not want policy officers below the level of Presidential appointees to concern themselves too much with problems of domestic politics in recommending foreign policy action .
In the first place our business is foreign policy , and it is the business of the Presidential leadership and his appointees in the Department to consider the domestic political aspects of a problem .
Mr. Truman emphasized this point by saying , `` You fellows in the Department of State don't know much about domestic politics '' .
This is an important consideration .
If we sit here reading editorials and looking at public-opinion polls and other reports that cross our desks , we should realize that this is raw , undigested opinion expressed in the absence of leadership .
What the American people will do turns in large degree on their leadership .
We cannot test public opinion until the President and the leaders of the country have gone to the public to explain what is required and have asked them for support for the necessary action .
I doubt , for example , that , 3 months before the leadership began to talk about what came to be the Marshall plan , any public-opinion expert would have said that the country would have accepted such proposals .
The problem in the policy officer's mind thus begins to take shape as a galaxy of utterly complicated factors -- political , military , economic , financial , legal , legislative , procedural , administrative -- to be sorted out and handled within a political system which moves by consent in relation to an external environment which cannot be under control .
And the policy officer has the hounds of time snapping at his heels .
While there should be no general age limit or restriction to one sex , there will be particular projects requiring special maturity and some open only to men or to women .
The Peace Corps should not pay the expenses of a wife or family , unless the wife is also accepted for full-time Peace Corps work on the same project .
There should be no draft exemption because of Peace Corps service .
In most cases service in the Corps will probably be considered a ground for temporary deferment .
Peace Corps volunteers obviously should not be paid what they might earn in comparable activities in the United States .
Nor would it be possible in many cases for them to live in health or any effectiveness on what their counterparts abroad are paid .
The guiding principle indeed should not be anything like compensation for individual services .
Rather the principle should be akin to that of the allowance .
Peace Corps volunteers should be given just enough to provide a minimum decent standard of living .
They should live in modest circumstances , avoiding all conspicuous consumption .
Wherever possible they should live with their host country counterparts .
Some special health requirements might have to be met .
For example , it probably will be necessary for the Corps to have authority to pay medical expenses of volunteers .
Perhaps existing Public Health Service , State Department and Armed Services medical facilities can be utilized .
For readjustment to the U.S. , volunteers should be given some separation allowance at the end of their overseas service , based on the length of time served .
7 .
In what part of the government should the Peace Corps be established ? ?
The idea of a Peace Corps has captured the imagination of a great many people .
Support for it cuts across party , regional , ethnic and other lines .
The Peace Corps , therefore , offers an opportunity to add a new dimension to our approach to the world -- an opportunity for the American people to think anew and start afresh in their participation in world development .
For this , the Peace Corps should be administered by a small , new , alive agency operating as one component in our whole overseas operation .
Pending the reorganization of our foreign aid structure and program , the Peace Corps should be established as an agency in the Department of State .
When the aid operations are reorganized the Peace Corps should remain a semi-autonomous , functional unit .
Meanwhile , the Peace Corps could be physically located in ICA's facilities and depend on the State Department and ICA for administrative support and , when needed , program assistance .
In this way the Peace Corps can be launched with its own identity and spirit and yet receive the necessary assistance from those now responsible for United States foreign policy and our overseas operations .
8 .
How and when should the Peace Corps be launched ? ?
The Peace Corps can either begin in very low gear , with only preparatory work undertaken between now and when Congress finally appropriates special funds for it -- or it can be launched now and in earnest by executive action , with sufficient funds and made available from existing Mutual Security appropriations to permit a number of substantial projects to start this summer .
The Peace Corps should be launched soon so that the opportunity to recruit the most qualified people from this year's graduating classes will not be lost .
Nor should we lose the opportunity to use this summer for training on university campuses .
If launched in a careful but determined way within the next few weeks , the Peace Corps could have several hundred persons in training this summer for placement next fall .
Within a year or two several thousand might be in service .
It can then grow steadily as it proves itself and as the need for it is demonstrated .
9 .
What would the first projects be ? ?
In the first year there should probably be considerable emphasis on teaching projects .
The need here is most clearly felt and our capacity to recruit and train qualified volunteers in a short period of time is greatest .
There would , however , be a variety of other skills -- medical , agricultural , engineering -- which would be called for in the first year through the private agency programs and through the provision of technician helpers to existing development projects .
The first year's projects should also be spread through several countries in Latin America , Africa and Asia .
10 .
How will the Peace Corps be received abroad ? ?
Although the need for outside trained manpower exists in every newly developing nation , the readiness to receive such manpower , or to receive it from the United States will vary from country to country .
A certain skepticism about the coming of Americans is to be expected in many quarters .
Unfriendly political groups will no doubt do everything in their power to promote active hostility .
But there are indications that many developing nations will welcome Peace Corps volunteers , and that if the volunteers are well chosen , they will soon demonstrate their value and make many friends .
It is important , however , that the Peace Corps be advanced not as an arm of the Cold War but as a contribution to the world community .
In presenting it to other governments and to the United Nations , we could propose that every nation consider the formation of its own peace corps and that the United Nations sponsor the idea and form an international coordinating committee .
We should hope that peace corps projects will be truly international and that our citizens will find themselves working alongside citizens of the host country and also volunteers from other lands .
In any case , our Peace Corps personnel should be offered as technician helpers in development projects of the U.N. and other international agencies .
The Peace Corps is not a diplomatic or propaganda venture but a genuine experiment in international partnership .
Our aim must be to learn as much as we teach .
The Peace Corps offers an opportunity to bring home to the United States the problems of the world as well as an opportunity to meet urgent host country needs for trained manpower .
If presented in this spirit , the response and the results will be immeasurably better .
11 .
How will it be financed ? ?
The already appropriated funds within the discretion of the President and Secretary of State under the Mutual Security Act are the only immediately available source of financing this summer's pilot programs of the Peace Corps .
If it is decided to make a small shift which may be required from military aid or special assistance funds , in order to carry out the purposes of the Mutual Security Act through this new peaceful program , this will be a hopeful sign to the world .
Congress should then be asked to give the Peace Corps a firm legislative foundation for the next fiscal year .
Specifically , Congress should consider authorizing the Peace Corps to receive contributions from American businesses , unions , civic organizations and the public at large .
For this must be the project of the whole American people .
An Advisory Council of outstanding public figures with experience in world affairs should be formed to give the program continuing guidance and to afford a focal point for public understanding .
Steps should also be taken to link the Food for Peace Program with the Peace Corps , so that foreign currencies accumulated by the sale of U.S. surplus food under P.L. 480 can be put to use to pay some of the host country expenses of Peace Corps personnel .
The extent to which participating bodies such as U. S. voluntary agencies , universities , international organizations , and the host country or institutions in the host country can and should share the cost of the Peace Corps programs must be fully explored .
12 .
Is it worth the cost and the risks ? ?
No matter how well conceived and efficiently run , there probably will be failures .
These could be costly and have a serious effect both at home and abroad .
But as the popular response suggests , the potentiality of the Peace Corps is very great .
It can contribute to the development of critical countries and regions .
It can promote international cooperation and good will toward this country .
It can also contribute to the education of America and to more intelligent American participation in the world .
With thousands of young Americans going to work in developing areas , millions of Americans will become more directly involved in the world than ever before .
With colleges and universities carrying a large part of the program , and with students looking toward Peace Corps service , there will be an impact on educational curriculum and student seriousness .
The letters home , the talks later given by returning members of the Peace Corps , the influence on the lives of those who spend two or three years in hard work abroad -- all this may combine to provide a substantial popular base for responsible American policies toward the world .
And this is meeting the world's need , too , since what the world most needs from this country is better understanding of the world .
The Peace Corps thus can add a new dimension to America's world policy -- one for which people here and abroad have long been waiting .
As you said in your State of the Union message , `` The problems are towering and unprecedented -- and the response must be towering and unprecedented as well '' .
To the Congress of the United States :
I recommend to the Congress the establishment of a permanent Peace Corps -- a pool of trained American men and women sent overseas by the U.S. Government or through private organizations and institutions to help foreign countries meet their urgent needs for skilled manpower .
I have today signed an Executive Order establishing a Peace Corps on a temporary pilot basis .
The temporary Peace Corps will be a source of information and experience to aid us in formulating more effective plans for a permanent organization .
In addition , by starting the Peace Corps now we will be able to begin training young men and women for overseas duty this summer with the objective of placing them in overseas positions by late fall .
This temporary Peace Corps is being established under existing authority in the Mutual Security Act and will be located in the Department of State .
Its initial expenses will be paid from appropriations currently available for our foreign aid program .
Throughout the world the people of the newly developing nations are struggling for economic and social progress which reflects their deepest desires .
Our own freedom , and the future of freedom around the world , depend , in a very real sense , on their ability to build growing and independent nations where men can live in dignity , liberated from the bonds of hunger , ignorance and poverty .
One of the greatest obstacles to the achievement of this goal is the lack of trained men and women with the skill to teach the young and assist in the operation of development projects -- men and women with the capacity to cope with the demands of swiftly evolving economics , and with the dedication to put that capacity to work in the villages , the mountains , the towns and the factories of dozens of struggling nations .
The vast task of economic development urgently requires skilled people to do the work of the society -- to help teach in the schools , construct development projects , demonstrate modern methods of sanitation in the villages , and perform a hundred other tasks calling for training and advanced knowledge .
To meet this urgent need for skilled manpower we are proposing the establishment of a Peace Corps -- an organization which will recruit and train American volunteers , sending them abroad to work with the people of other nations .
This organization will differ from existing assistance programs in that its members will supplement technical advisers by offering the specific skills needed by developing nations if they are to put technical advice to work .
They will help provide the skilled manpower necessary to carry out the development projects planned by the host governments , acting at a working level and serving at great personal sacrifice .
There is little doubt that the number of those who wish to serve will be far greater than our capacity to absorb them .
Wildlife habitat resources
In 1960 one-quarter of the 92.5 million recreation visits to the National Forests and Grasslands were for the primary purpose of hunting and fishing .
Hunter and fisherman visits since 1949 have increased 8 times faster than the nationwide sale of hunting and fishing licenses .
This use is expected to increase to about 50 million visits by 1972 .
The long-range objective of habitat management is to make it fully productive so as to support fish and game populations to contribute to the need for public use and enjoyment .
The wildlife habitat management proposals for the 10-year period are : 1 .
Revise and complete wildlife habitat management and improvement plans for all administrative units , assuring proper coordination between wildlife habitat management and other resources .
2 .
Inventory and evaluate wildlife habitat resources in cooperation with other Federal agencies and with the States in which National Forests and Grasslands are located , as a basis for orderly development of wildlife habitat improvement and coordination programs , including ( A ) big-game , gamebird , and small-game habitat surveys and investigations on the 186 million acres of National Forests and Grasslands , ( B ) fishery habitat surveys and investigations on the 81,000 miles of National Forest fishing streams and nearly 3 million acres of lakes and impoundments , and ( C ) participation in planning , inspection , and control phases of all habitat improvement , land and water use projects conducted on National Forest lands by States , other Federal agencies , and private groups to assure that projects will benefit wildlife and be in harmony with other resource values .
3 .
Improve food and cover on 1.5 million acres of key wildlife areas .
4 .
Develop wildlife openings , food patches , and game ways in dense vegetation by clearing or controlled burning on 400,000 acres .
5 .
Improve 7,000 miles of fishing streams and 56,000 acres of lakes by stabilizing banks , planting streamside cover , and constructing channel improvements .
Protection
The total adverse impact of disease , insects , fire , weather , destructive animals , and other forces on the uses and values of forest resources is not generally recognized .
They kill and destroy , retard or prevent reproduction and growth , impair and damage values , and disrupt uses .
The loss in growth of sawtimber because of damage by destructive agencies in the United States in 1952 was estimated to be about 44 billion board feet .
If it were not for the effect of destructive agencies , sawtimber growth would have been nearly twice as great as the 47 billion board feet in 1952 .
About 45 percent of the loss in growth was attributable to disease , 20 percent to insects , 17 percent to fire , and 18 percent to weather , animals , and various other causes .
These destructive forces also have a seriously adverse effect upon the watersheds and their life-supporting waterflows , and upon the other renewable forest resources .
The long-range objective is to hold the damage from destructive agencies below the level which would seriously interfere with intensive management of the National Forest System under principles of multiple use and high-level sustained yield of products and services .
This can be accomplished substantially by a continued trend toward better facilities and techniques for fire control and more resources to cope with critical fire periods , and a more intensive application of a program of prevention , detection , and control of insect and disease infestations .
In addition to direct protection measures , more intensive management of timber resources will assist in reduction of losses from insects and disease .
Protection from insects and disease
In the 10-year period , it is proposed that insect and disease control on the National Forest System be stepped up to a level of prevention , detection , and control of insect and disease infestations that will substantially reduce the occurrence of large infestations toward the end of the initial period .
This will require about a 40 percent increase over the present level of protection .
The work will consist of : 1 .
Intensification of present activities through ( A ) quicker , more extensive , and more thorough surveys to detect incipient outbreaks ; ;
( B ) more reliable evaluation of the potential of initial outbreaks to cause widespread damage ; ;
( C ) quicker and more effective control action in the initial stages to prevent a large-scale epidemic .
The initial suppression activities would cover about twice the acreage currently being treated .
2 .
Continuation of present blister rust control work plus extension of control to 250,000 acres not now protected but which should be managed for white pine production .
The objective is to achieve sufficient effectiveness of control on all of the area now under treatment plus the additional acres so that after the initial period only maintenance control will be needed .
3 .
Initiating a program to control dwarf mistletoe on several hundred thousand acres of selected better stands of young softwood sawtimber on better growing sites .
4 .
Coordination of pest control objectives with timber management activities to reduce losses .
Protection from fire
It is proposed that in 10 years all commercial timberlands , all critical watersheds , and other lands in the National Forest System developed or proposed for intensive use will be given protection from fire adequate to meet the fire situation in the worst years and under serious peak loads .
This will include 125 million acres compared with 23 million acres now receiving such protection .
An additional 15 million acres will be given a lesser degree of protection but adequate to meet the average fire situation .
Meeting these levels of protection from fire calls for : 1 .
Expansion , modernization , and development of fire control to a proficiency and strength of force which will prevent as many fires as possible and suppress fires before they spread beyond permitted standards .
This is to be accomplished by nearly doubling the present level of preventive effort , detection , skilled fire-fighting crews , and equipment use .
This will include a stepped-up program of training and development of personnel .
2 .
Adoption and use of new and modern techniques being developed for prevention , for suppression of fires while small , and for stopping large fires while running and burning intensely .
3 .
Reduction of hazardous fuel conditions to minimize the chances of large fires developing and spreading to high-value areas .
This work will cover the most serious one-fourth of all land needing such treatment , and will consist of burning 250,000 acres of highly hazardous debris concentration , felling snags on 350,000 acres of high lightning-occurrence areas , prescribed burning on 3.5 million acres , removing roadside fuel on 39,000 acres , and clearing and maintaining 11,000 miles of firebreaks .
Protection from other damage
Rodent control work for the 10-year period will be aimed at control of the most serious infestations of harmful rodents , such as porcupines and mice , on high-value areas of forage and commercial timberlands .
These areas comprise about half of the total area of rodent infestation on the National Forests .
Approximately 1.8 million acres of rangelands and 9.4 million acres of timberlands would be treated in this period .
Control would be limited to those rodents for which economical means of control are known .
Roads and trails
The transportation system which serves the National Forests is a complex of highways and access roads and trails under various ownerships and jurisdictions .
This system is divided into a forest highway system , administered by the Secretary of Commerce , and a forest development road and trail system , administered by the Secretary of Agriculture .
Both of these systems are essential for the production , development , and use of the National Forests .
In the forest highway system , there are now 24,400 miles of public roads .
These are mostly through highways that carry traffic going from one destination to another .
Because administration of the forest highway system is a responsibility of the Secretary of Commerce with maintenance provided by the States and counties , this Development Program for the National Forests does not include estimates of the funds needed to maintain the forest highway system nor to construct the additions to it that are needed .
It is estimated that about 70,000 miles of forest highways will eventually be needed to fully serve the National Forests .
In the forest development road and trail system , there are now 162,400 miles of roads and 106,500 miles of supplemental foot and horse trails .
These roads are largely of less than highway standards , and usually carry traffic which is related to use of the National Forests .
Construction and maintenance of this system is a responsibility of the Secretary of Agriculture .
It is estimated that about 542,250 miles of forest development roads , and 80,000 miles of trails , constitute the system that will eventually be needed to obtain the maximum practicable yield and use of the wood , water , forage , and wildlife and recreation resources of the National Forests on a continuing basis .
The ultimate trail system will be of value primarily for recreation and wildlife utilization and fire protection .
It will be carefully planned to maintain optimum service to these important resources and watersheds .
The presence or lack of access by road or trail has a direct and controlling influence on all phases of forest management and utilization such as : ( A )
the protection of forage , timber , and wildlife resources from fire , insects , and disease ; ;
( B )
the balanced use of recreation , hunting , and fishing areas ; ;
( C )
the volume of timber that can be marketed , especially for small sales and the support of dependent communities and small business enterprises ; ;
( D )
the level of salvage cutting in dead and dying timber stands and the opportunity to promptly salvage losses resulting from fire , windstorm , insects , and disease ; ;
( E )
the protection of watershed lands from erosion and overgrazing by animals .
The existence of road systems permits an intensity of management and use for all National Forest purposes that is not otherwise possible .
Furthermore , roads that give access to National Forest timber are investments which pay their own way over a period of years .
Use of these roads by the public results in substantial benefits to the localities the roads serve .
The long-range objective of this Department is to provide and maintain a system of forest development roads and trails which will adequately service the National Forest System at the levels needed to meet expected needs and optimum production of products and services .
For the year 2000 this means servicing ( A ) the protection requirements of a watershed producing at least 200 million acre-feet of water each year , ( B ) recreation and wildlife resources used each year by 635 million visitors , ( C ) a timber resource supporting an annual cut of 21 billion board feet , and ( D ) 60 million acres of rangelands .
Service at these levels of production and utilization will eventually require the construction of about 379,900 miles of new roads and 6,000 miles of new trails , along with the reconstruction to higher standards of about 105,000 miles of roads and 10,500 miles of trails .
About 26,500 miles of existing trails will be replaced in service by the construction of new roads .
About 80 percent of these long-range requirements should be met by the year 2000 .
Program proposals for forest development roads and trails for the 10-year period 1963-1972 are as follows : 1 .
Complete the construction and reconstruction of about 79,400 miles of multiple-purpose roads and 8,000 miles of trails .
This constitutes about 17 percent of the long-range requirements for these facilities .
Approximately 40 percent of the value of the work on roads for access to timber which are planned for this period will be constructed by purchasers of National Forest timber , but paid for by the Government through adjustment of stumpage prices .
2 .
Provide maintenance to full standards on the 268,900 miles of existing access roads and trails and on the new roads and trails constructed during the period .
Land adjustment , land purchase , land use
Within the units in the National Forest System the pattern of land ownership is quite irregular .
In some units , National Forest ownership is well blocked together .
In many others , the previous patenting of land under the public land laws , or the way in which land was available for purchase , resulted in a scattered pattern of ownership .
Within exterior boundaries of National Forests and National Grasslands , there are about 40,000,000 acres in non-Federal ownership .
One consequence is the occurrence of occasional conflicts because private owners of some inholdings object to public programs of use on neighboring National Forest or other Federal land , or because such ownerships are developed for uses that are not compatible with use for the public of neighboring National Forest land .
Some privately held inholdings are a source of direct damage to these Federal lands .
And some , which are suitable for tree growing and for other National Forest purposes , are unmanaged or in need of expensive rehabilitation , and are contributing nothing to the economy ; ;
there are no reasonable prospects that these conditions will be corrected or changed .
Lands in this last category are situated largely in the mountainous portions of the Eastern States .
The long-range objective is to bring about consolidation of ownership through use of land exchange authority and through purchase on a moderate scale of inholdings which comprise key tracts for recognized National Forest programs such as recreation development , or which are a source of damage to lands in National Forests and National Grasslands .
Strategy and tactics of the U.S. military forces are now undergoing one of the greatest transitions in history .
The change of emphasis from conventional-type to missile-type warfare must be made with care , mindful that the one type of warfare cannot be safely neglected in favor of the other .
Our military forces must be capable of contending successfully with any contingency which may be forced upon us , from limited emergencies to all-out nuclear general war .
Forces and military personnel strength .
-- This budget will provide in the fiscal year 1961 for the continued support of our forces at approximately the present level -- a year-end strength of 2,489,000 men and women in the active forces .
The forces to be supported include an Army of 14 divisions and 870,000 men ; ;
a Navy of 817 active ships and 619,000 men ; ;
a Marine Corps of 3 divisions and 3 air wings with 175,000 men ; ;
and an Air Force of 91 combat wings and 825,000 men .
If the reserve components are to serve effectively in time of war , their basic organization and objectives must conform to the changing character and missions of the active forces .
Quality and combat readiness must take precedence over mere numbers .
Under modern conditions , this is especially true of the ready reserve .
I have requested the Secretary of Defense to reexamine the roles and missions of the reserve components in relation to those of the active forces and in the light of the changing requirements of modern warfare .
Last year the Congress discontinued its previously imposed minimum personnel strength limitations on the Army Reserve .
Similar restrictions on the strength of the Army National Guard contained in the 1960 Department of Defense Appropriation Act should likewise be dropped .
I strongly recommend to the Congress the avoidance of mandatory floors on the size of the reserve components so that we may have the flexibility to make adjustments in keeping with military necessity .
I again proposed a reduction in the Army National Guard and Army Reserve -- from their present strengths of 400,000 and 300,000 , respectively , to 360,000 and 270,000 by the end of the fiscal year 1961 .
These strengths are considered adequate to meet the essential roles and missions of the reserves in support of our national security objectives .
Military personnel costs .
-- About 30% of the expenditures for the Department of Defense in 1961 are for military personnel costs , including pay for active , reserve , and retired military personnel .
These expenditures are estimated to be $12.1 billion , an increase of $187 million over 1960 , reflecting additional longevity pay of career personnel , more dependents , an increased number of men drawing proficiency pay , and social security tax increases ( effective for the full year in 1961 compared with only 6 months in 1960 ) .
Retired pay costs are increased by $94 million in 1961 over 1960 , partly because of a substantial increase in the number of retired personnel .
These increased costs are partially offset by a decrease of $56 million in expenditures for the reserve forces , largely because of the planned reduction in strength of the Army Reserve components during 1961 .
Traditionally , rates of pay for retired military personnel have been proportionate to current rates of pay for active personnel .
The 1958 military pay act departed from this established formula by providing for a 6% increase rather than a proportionate increase for everyone retired prior to its effective date of June 1 , 1958 .
I endorse pending legislation that will restore the traditional relationship between retired and active duty pay rates .
Operation and maintenance .
-- Expenditures for operating and maintaining the stations and equipment of the Armed Forces are estimated to be $10.3 billion in 1961 , which is $184 million more than in 1960 .
The increase stems largely from the growing complexity of and higher degree of maintenance required for newer weapons and equipment .
A substantial increase is estimated in the cost of operating additional communications systems in the air defense program , as well as in all programs where speed and security of communications are essential .
Also , the program for fleet modernization will be stepped up in 1961 causing an increase in expenditures .
Further increases arise from the civilian employee health program enacted by the Congress last year .
Other factors increasing operating costs include the higher unit cost of each flying hour , up 11% in two years , and of each steaming hour , up 15% .
In total , these increases in operating costs outweigh the savings that result from declining programs and from economy measures , such as reduced numbers of units and installations , smaller inventories of major equipment , and improvements in the supply and distribution systems of the Armed Forces .
In the budget message for 1959 , and again for 1960 , I recommended immediate repeal of section 601 of the Act of September 28 , 1951 ( 65 Stat. 365 ) .
This section prevents the military departments and the Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization from carrying out certain transactions involving real property unless they come into agreement with the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives .
As I have stated previously , the Attorney General has advised me that this section violates fundamental constitutional principles .
Accordingly , if it is not repealed by the Congress at its present session , I shall have no alternative thereafter but to direct the Secretary of Defense to disregard the section unless a court of competent jurisdiction determines otherwise .
Basic long-line communications in Alaska are now provided through Federal facilities operated by the Army , Air Force , and Federal Aviation Agency .
The growing communications needs of this new State can best be met , as they have in other States , through the operation and development of such facilities by private enterprise .
Legislation has already been proposed to authorize the sale of these Government-owned systems in Alaska , and its early enactment is desirable .
Procurement , research , and construction .
-- Approximately 45% of the expenditures for the Department of Defense are for procurement , research , development , and construction programs .
In 1961 , these expenditures are estimated at $18.9 billion , compared to $19.3 billion in 1960 .
The decreases , which are largely in construction and in aircraft procurement , are offset in part by increases for research and development and for procurement of other military equipment such as tanks , vehicles , guns , and electronic devices .
Expenditures for shipbuilding are estimated at about the same level as in 1960 .
New obligational authority for 1961 recommended in this budget for aircraft procurement ( excluding amounts for related research and construction ) totals $4,753 million , which is $1,390 million below that enacted for 1960 .
On the other hand , the new authority of $3,825 million proposed for missile procurement ( excluding research and construction ) in 1961 is $581 million higher than for 1960 .
These contrasting trends in procurement reflect the anticipated changes in the composition and missions of our Armed Forces in the years ahead .
The Department of Defense appropriation acts for the past several years have contained a rider which limits competitive bidding by firms in other countries on certain military supply items .
As I have repeatedly stated , this provision is much more restrictive than the general law , popularly known as the Buy American Act .
I urge once again that the Congress not reenact this rider .
The task of providing a reasonable level of military strength , without endangering other vital aspects of our security , is greatly complicated by the swift pace of scientific progress .
The last few years have witnessed what have been perhaps the most rapid advances in military technology in history .
Some weapons systems have become obsolescent while still in production , and some while still under development .
Furthermore , unexpectedly rapid progress or a technological break-through on any one weapon system , in itself , often diminishes the relative importance of other competitive systems .
This has necessitated a continuous review and reevaluation of the defense program in order to redirect resources to the newer and more important weapons systems and to eliminate or reduce effort on weapons systems which have been overtaken by events .
Thus , in the last few years , a number of programs which looked very promising at the time their development was commenced have since been completely eliminated .
For example , the importance of the Regulus 2 , a very promising aerodynamic ship-to-surface missile designed to be launched by surfaced submarines , was greatly diminished by the successful acceleration of the much more advanced Polaris ballistic missile launched by submerged submarines .
Another example is the recent cancellation of the F-108 , a long-range interceptor with a speed three times as great as the speed of sound , which was designed for use against manned bombers in the period of the mid-1960's .
The substantial progress being made in ballistic missile technology is rapidly shifting the main threat from manned bombers to missiles .
Considering the high cost of the F-108 system -- over $4 billion for the force that had been planned -- and the time period in which it would become operational , it was decided to stop further work on the project .
Meanwhile , other air defense forces are being made effective , as described later in this message .
The size and scope of other important programs have been reduced from earlier plans .
Notable in this category are the Jupiter and Thor intermediate range ballistic missiles , which have been successfully developed , produced , and deployed , but the relative importance of which has diminished with the increasing availability of the Atlas intercontinental ballistic missile .
The impact of technological factors is also illustrated by the history of the high-energy fuel program .
This project was started at a time when there was a critical need for a high-energy fuel to provide an extra margin of range for high performance aircraft , particularly our heavy bombers .
Continuing technical problems involved in the use of this fuel , coupled with significant improvements in aircraft range through other means , have now raised serious questions about the value of the high-energy fuel program .
As a result , the scope of this project has been sharply curtailed .
These examples underscore the importance of even more searching evaluations of new major development programs and even more penetrating and far-ranging analyses of the potentialities of future technology .
The cost of developing a major weapon system is now so enormous that the greatest care must be exercised in selecting new systems for development , in determining the most satisfactory rate of development , and in deciding the proper time at which either to place a system into production or to abandon it .
Strategic forces .
-- The deterrent power of our Armed Forces comes from both their nuclear retaliatory capability and their capability to conduct other essential operations in any form of war .
The first capability is represented by a combination of manned bombers , carrier-based aircraft , and intercontinental and intermediate range missiles .
The second capability is represented by our deployed ground , naval , and air forces in essential forward areas , together with ready reserves capable of effecting early emergency reinforcement .
The Strategic Air Command is the principal element of our long-range nuclear capability .
One of the important and difficult decisions which had to be made in this budget concerned the role of the B-70 , a long-range supersonic bomber .
This aircraft , which was planned for initial operational use about 1965 , would be complementary to but likewise competitive with the four strategic ballistic missile systems , all of which are scheduled to become available earlier .
The first Atlas ICBM's are now operational , the first two Polaris submarines are expected to be operational this calendar year , and the first Titan ICBM's next year .
The Minuteman solid-fueled ICBM is planned to be operational about mid-1963 .
By 1965 , several or all of these systems will have been fully tested and their reliability established .
Thus , the need for the B-70 as a strategic weapon system is doubtful .
However , I am recommending that development work on the B-70 air-frame and engines be continued .
It is expected that in 1963 two prototype aircraft will be available for flight testing .
By that time we should be in a much better position to determine the value of that aircraft as a weapon system .
I am recommending additional acquisitions of the improved version of the B-52 ( the B-52H with the new turbofan engine ) and procurement of the B-58 supersonic medium bomber , together with the supporting refueling tankers in each case .
These additional modern bombers will replace some of the older B-47 medium bombers ; ;
one B-52 can do the work of several B-47's which it will replace .
Funds are also included in this budget to continue the equipping of the B-52 wings with the Hound Dog air-to-surface missile .
In the coming fiscal year additional quantities of Atlas , Titan , and Polaris missiles also will be procured .
Purchase authorizations will include provisions relating to the sale and delivery of commodities , including the classes , types and/or varieties of food grain , the time and circumstances of deposit of the rupees accruing from such sale , and other relevant matters .
3 .
The United States recognizes the desire of India to accumulate , as quickly as possible , a substantial part of the one million ton reserve stock of rice provided for in this Agreement to assist in stabilizing the internal markets for this commodity in India .
Under this Agreement the first annual review of rice availabilities will be made in August 1960 .
At that time consideration will be given to whether in the light of the United States supplies of rice available for Title 1 , disposal , India's production , consumption and stocks of food grains , other imports from the United States and countries friendly to the United States , India's storage capacity , and other related factors , any increase would be possible in the portion of the total rice programmed which is currently planned for procurement during the first year .
4 .
The two Governments agree that the issuance of purchase authorizations for wheat and rice providing for purchase after June 30 , 1961 , shall be dependent upon the determination by the United States Government that these commodities are in surplus supply and available under Title 1 , of the Act at that time .
The United States Government shall have the right to terminate the financing of further sales under this Agreement of any commodity if it determines at any time after June 30 , 1961 , that such action is necessitated by the existence of an international emergency .
Article 2 , uses of rupees
1 .
The two Governments agree that the rupees accruing to the Government of the United States of America as a consequence of sales made pursuant to this Agreement will be used by the Government of the United States of America , in such manner and order of priority as the Government of the United States of America shall determine , for the following purposes in the amounts shown : ( A )
For United States expenditures under subsections ( A ) , ( B ) , ( D ) , ( E ) , ( F ) , ( H ) through ( R ) of Section 104 of the Act or under any of such subsections , the rupee equivalent of $200 million .
( B )
For grant to the Government of India under subsection ( E ) of Section 104 of the Act , the rupee equivalent of not more than $538 million for financing such projects to promote balanced economic development as may from time to time be mutually agreed .
( C )
For loan to the Government of India under subsection ( G ) of Section 104 of the Act , the rupee equivalent of not more than $538 million for financing such projects to promote balanced economic development as may be mutually agreed .
The terms and conditions of the loan and other provisions will be set forth in a separate agreement by the two Governments .
In the event that agreement is not reached on the use of the rupees for grant or loan purposes within six years from the date of this Agreement , the Government of the United States of America may use the local currency for any purposes authorized by Section 104 of the Act .
2 .
In the event the total of rupees accruing to the Government of the United States of America as a consequence of sales made pursuant to this Agreement is different from the rupee equivalent of $1,276 million , the amounts available for the purposes specified in paragraph 1 , Article 2 , will be adjusted proportionately .
Article 3 , deposit of rupees
The deposit of rupees to the account of the Government of the United States of America in payment for the commodities and for ocean transportation costs financed by the Government of the United States of America ( except excess costs resulting from the requirement that United States flag vessels be used ) shall be made at the rate of exchange for United States dollars generally applicable to import transactions ( excluding imports granted a preferential rate ) in effect on the dates of dollar disbursement by United States banks , or by the Government of the United States of America , as provided in the purchase authorizations .
Article 4 , general undertakings
1 .
The Government of India agrees that it will take all possible measures to prevent the resale or transshipment to other countries or the use for other than domestic purposes ( except where such resale , transshipment or use is specifically approved by the Government of the United States of America ) , of the surplus agricultural commodities purchased pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement , and to assure that the purchase of such commodities does not result in increased availability of these or like commodities for export from India .
2 .
The two Governments agree that they will take reasonable precautions to assure that all sales or purchases of surplus agricultural commodities , pursuant to the Agreement will not displace usual marketings of the United States of America in these commodities , or unduly disrupt world prices of agricultural commodities or normal patterns of commercial trade with friendly countries .
3 .
In carrying out this Agreement , the two Governments will seek to assure , to the extent practicable , conditions of commerce permitting private traders to function effectively and will use their best endeavors to develop and extend continuous market demand for agricultural commodities .
4 .
The Government of India agrees to furnish , upon request of the United States of America , information on the progress of the program , particularly with respect to the arrival and condition of commodities and the provisions for the maintenance of usual marketings , and information relating to exports of the same or like commodities .
Article 5 , consultation
The two Governments will , upon the request of either of them , consult regarding any matter relating to the application of this Agreement or to the operation of arrangements carried out pursuant to this Agreement .
Article 6 , entry into force
The agreement shall enter into force upon signature .
In witness whereof , the respective representatives , duly authorized for the purpose , have signed the present Agreement .
Done at Washington in duplicate this fourth day of May 1960 .
For the government of the United States of America :
Dwight D. Eisenhower
for the government of India :
S. K. Patil Excellency :
I have the honor to refer to the Agricultural Commodities Agreement signed today between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of India ( hereinafter referred to as the Agreement ) and , with regard to the rupees accruing to uses indicated under Article 2 , of the Agreement , to state that the understanding of the Government of the United States of America is as follows : 1 .
With respect to Article 2 , , Paragraph 1 ( A ) of the Agreement : ( 1 )
The Government of India will provide facilities for the conversions of the rupee equivalent of $4 million ( up to a maximum of $1 million per year ) accruing under the subject agreement for agricultural market development purposes into currencies other than United States dollars on request of the Government of the United States of America .
This facility is needed for the purpose of securing funds to finance agricultural market development activities of the Government of the United States in other countries .
The Government of the United States of America may utilize rupees in India to pay for goods and services , including international transportation needed in connection with market development and other agricultural projects and activities in India and other countries .
( 2 )
The rupee equivalent of $63.8 million , but not more than 5 percent of the currencies received under the Agreement will be used for loans to be made by the Export-Import Bank of Washington under Section 104 ( E ) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act , as amended ( hereinafter referred to as the Act ) , and for administrative expenses of the Export-Import Bank of Washington in India incident thereto .
It is understood that : ( A )
Such loans under Section 104 ( E ) of the Act will be made to United States business firms and branches , subsidiaries , or affiliates of such firms in India for business development and trade expansion in India and to United States firms and to Indian firms for the establishment of facilities for aiding in the utilization , distribution , or otherwise increasing the consumption of and markets for United States agricultural products .
In the event the rupees set aside for loans under Section 104 ( E ) of the Act are not advanced within six years from the date of this Agreement because the Export-Import Bank of Washington has not approved loans or because proposed loans have not been mutually agreeable to the Export-Import Bank of Washington and the Department of Economic Affairs of the Government of India , the Government of the United States of America may use the rupees for any purpose authorized by Section 104 of the Act .
( B )
Loans will be mutually agreeable to the Export-Import Bank of Washington and the Government of India acting through the Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance .
The Secretary , Department of Economic Affairs , or his designate , will act for the Government of India , and the President of the Export-Import Bank of Washington , or his designate , will act for the Export-Import Bank of Washington .
( C )
Upon receipt of an application which the Export-Import Bank is prepared to consider , the Export-Import Bank will inform the Department of Economic Affairs of the identity of the applicant , the nature of the proposed business , the amount of the proposed loan , and the general purposes for which the loan proceeds would be expended .
( D )
When the Export-Import Bank is prepared to act favorably upon an application , it will so notify the Department of Economic Affairs and will indicate the interest rate and the repayment period which would be used under the proposed loan .
The interest rate will be similar to those prevailing in India on comparable loans and the maturities will be consistent with the purposes of the financing .
( E )
Within sixty days after the receipt of notice that the Export-Import Bank is prepared to act favorably upon an application the Department of Economic Affairs will indicate to the Export-Import Bank whether or not the Department of Economic Affairs has any objection to the proposed loan .
Unless within the sixty-day period the Export-Import Bank has received such a communication from the Department of Economic Affairs it shall be understood that the Department of Economic Affairs has no objection to the proposed loan .
When the Export-Import Bank approves or declines the proposed loan , it will notify the Department of Economic Affairs .
2 .
With respect to Article 2 , , paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) : Uses of Section 104 ( E ) and Section 104 ( G ) rupees : The Government of India will use the amount of rupees granted or loaned to it by the United States pursuant to paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) for projects to promote economic development with emphasis upon the agricultural sector including food reserve storage structures and facilities as may from time to time be agreed upon by the authorized representatives of the United States and the authorized representatives of the Government of India , in the following sectors : A .
Agriculture ; ;
B .
Industry , including the production of fertilizer , irrigation and power , transport and communications , and credit institutions ; ;
C .
Public health , education , and rehabilitation ; ;
D .
Other economic development projects consistent with the purposes of Sections 104 ( E ) and 104 ( G ) of the Act .
The Government of India further agrees in cooperation with the Government of the United States , to coordinate the use of grant and loan funds provided for in paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) of Article 2 , with such direct dollar assistance as may be made available by the Government of the United States of America , so that both sources of financing may be channeled to specific and clearly identifiable economic development programs and projects .
3 .
It is agreed that any goods delivered or services rendered after the date of this agreement for projects within categories A , B , and C under paragraph 2 above which may later be approved by the United States will be eligible for financing from currency granted or loaned to the Government of India .
4 .
With regard to the rupees accruing to uses indicated under Article 2 , of the Agreement , the understanding of the Government of the United States of America , with respect to both paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) of Article 2 , is as follows : ( 1 )
Local currency will be advanced or reimbursed to the Government of India for financing agreed projects under paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) of Article 2 , of the Agreement upon the presentation of such documentation as the United States may specify .
( 2 )
The Government of India shall maintain or cause to be maintained books and records adequate to identify the goods and services financed for agreed projects pursuant to paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) of Article 2 , of the Agreement , to disclose the use thereof in the projects and to record the progress of the projects ( including the cost thereof ) .
The books and records with respect to each project shall be maintained for the duration of the project , or until the expiration of three years after final disbursement for the project has been made by the United States , whichever is later .
The two Governments shall have the right at all reasonable times to examine such books and records and all other documents , correspondence , memoranda and other records involving transactions relating to agreed projects .
The Government of India shall enable the authorized representatives of the United States to observe and review agreed projects and the utilization of goods and services financed under the projects , and shall furnish to the United States all such information as it shall reasonably request concerning the above-mentioned matters and the expenditures related thereto .
This broad delegation leaves within our discretion ( subject to the always-present criterion of the public interest ) both the determination of what degree of interference shall be considered excessive , and the methods by which such excessive interference shall be avoided .
3 .
The present proceeding is concerned with the standard broadcast ( AM ) band , from 540 kc. to 1600 kc. .
Whenever two or more standard broadcast stations operate simultaneously on the same or closely adjacent frequencies , each interferes to some extent with reception of the other .
The extent of such interference -- which may be so slight as to be undetectable at any point where either of the stations renders a usable signal , or may be so great as to virtually destroy the service areas of both stations -- depends on many factors , among the principal ones being the distance between the stations , their respective radiated power , and , of particular significance here , the time of day .
Other factors playing a part in the extent of AM service and interference are the frequency involved , the time of year , the position of the year in the sunspot cycle , ground conductivity along the transmission path , atmospheric and manmade noise , and others .
With the existence of these many factors , some of them variable , it obviously has never been and is not now possible for the Commission to make assignments of AM stations on a case-to-case basis which will insure against any interference in any circumstances .
Rather , such assignments are made , as they must be , on the basis of certain overall rules and standards , representing to some extent a statistical approach to the problem , taking into account for each situation some of the variables ( e.g. , power and station separations ) and averaging out others in order to achieve the balance which must be struck between protection against destructive interference and the assignment of a number of stations large enough to afford optimum radio service to the Nation .
An example of the overall standards applied is the 20-to-1 ratio established for the determination of that degree of cochannel interference which is regarded as objectionable .
By this standard , it is determined that where two stations operating on the same frequency are involved , objectionable interference from station A exists at any point within the service area of station B where station A's signal is of an intensity one-twentieth or more of the strength of station B's signal at that point .
4 .
The 20-to-1 ratio for cochannel interference embodies one of the fundamental limiting principles which we must always take into account in AM assignments and allocations -- that signals from a particular station are potential sources of objectionable interference over an area much greater than that within which they provide useful service .
A second fundamental principle is that involved particularly in the present proceeding -- the difference between nighttime and daytime propagation conditions with respect to the standard broadcast frequencies .
This is a phenomenon familiar to all radio listeners , resulting from reflection of skywave signals at night from the ionized layer in the upper atmosphere known as the ionosphere .
All AM stations radiate both skywave and groundwave signals , at all hours ; ;
but during the middle daytime hours these skywave radiations are not reflected in any substantial quantity , and during this portion of the day both skywave service and skywave interference are , in general , negligible .
But during nighttime hours the skywave radiations are reflected from the ionosphere , thereby creating the possibility of one station's rendering service , via skywave , at a much greater distance than it can through its groundwave signal , and at the same time vastly complicating the interference problem because of the still greater distance over which these skywave signals may cause interference to the signals of stations on the same and closely adjacent frequencies .
Because of the difference between daytime and nighttime propagation conditions , it has been necessary to evolve different allocation structures for daytime and nighttime broadcasting in the AM band , with many more stations operating during the day than at night .
5 .
It was recognized years ago that the transition from daytime to nighttime propagation conditions , and vice versa , is not an instantaneous process , but takes place over periods of time from roughly 2 hours before sunset until about 2 hours after sunset , and again from roughly 2 hours before sunrise until some 2 hours after sunrise .
During the period of about 4 hours around sunset , skywave transmission conditions are building up until full nighttime conditions prevail ; ;
during the same period around sunrise , skywave transmission is declining , until at about 2 hours after sunrise it reaches a point where it becomes of little practical significance .
However , in this case as elsewhere it was necessary to arrive at a single standard to be applied to all situations , representing an averaging of conditions , and thus to fix particular points in time which would be considered the dividing points between daytime and nighttime conditions .
It was determined that the hours of sunrise and sunset , respectively , should be used for this purpose .
Accordingly , the 1938-39 rules adopted these hours as limitations upon the operation of daytime stations .
Class 2 , stations operating on clear channels are required to cease operation or operate under nighttime restrictions beginning either at local sunset ( for daytime class 2 , stations ) or sunset at the location of the dominant class 1 , station where located west of the class 2 , station ( for limited-time class 2 , stations ) .
The same restrictions apply after local sunset in the case of class 3 , stations operating on regional channels , which after that time are required to operate under nighttime restrictions in order to protect each other .
With respect to nighttime assignments , the degree of skywave service and interference is determined by skywave curves ( figs. 1 and 2 of sec. 3.190 of the rules ) giving average skywave values .
These curves were derived by an analysis of extensive skywave measurement data .
It was recognized that skywave signals , because of their reflected nature , are of great variability and subject to wide fluctuations in strength .
For this reason , the more uncertain skywave service was denominated `` secondary '' in our rules , as compared to the steadier , more reliable groundwave `` primary service '' , and , for both skywave service and skywave interference , signal strength is expressed in terms of percentage of time a particular signal-intensity level is exceeded -- 50 percent of the time for skywave service , 10 percent of the time for skywave interference .
Allocation policies
6 .
As mentioned , the allocation of AM stations represents a balance between protection against interference and the provision of opportunity for an adequate number of stations .
The rules and policies to be applied in this process of course must be based on objectives which represent what is to be desired if radio service is to be of maximum use to the Nation .
Our objectives , as we have stated many times , are -- ( 1 )
To provide some service to all listeners ; ;
( 2 )
To provide as many choices of service to as many listeners as possible ; ;
( 3 )
To provide service of local origin to as many listeners as possible .
Since broadcast frequencies are very limited in number , these objectives are to some extent inconsistent in that not all of them can be fully realized , and to the extent that each is realized , there is a corresponding reduction of the possibilities for fullest achievement of the others .
Accordingly , the Commission has recognized that an optimum allocation pattern for one frequency does not necessarily represent the best pattern for other frequencies , and has assigned different frequencies for use by different classes of stations .
Some 45 frequencies are assigned for use primarily by dominant Class 1 , -- A or Class 1 , -- B clear-channel stations , designed to operate with adequate power and to provide service -- both groundwave and ( at night ) skywave -- over large areas and at great distances , being protected against interference to the degree necessary to achieve this objective .
In dealing with these frequencies , the objective listed first above -- provision of service to all listeners -- was predominant ; ;
the other objectives were subordinated to it .
The class 1 , stations on these clear channels are protected to their 0.1-mv./m. groundwave contours against daytime cochannel interference .
With respect to skywave service rendered at night , class 1 , -- A stations are the only stations permitted to operate in the United States on clear channels specified for class 1 , -- A operation , and so render skywave service free from cochannel interference whereever they may be received ; ;
class 1 , -- B stations are protected at night to their 0.5-mv./m. 50-percent time skywave contours against cochannel interference .
Since the provision of skywave service requires adequate freedom from interference , only class 1 , stations are capable of rendering skywave service .
But nighttime operation by stations of other classes of course entails skywave interference to groundwave service , interference which is substantial unless steps are taken to minimize it .
7 .
With respect to other frequencies , these are designated as regional or local , and assigned for use by class 3 , and class 4 , stations , respectively , stations operating generally with lower power .
In the allocation pattern worked out for these frequencies , the provision of long-range service has to some extent been subordinated to the other two objectives -- assignment of multiple facilities , and assignment of stations in as many communities as possible .
8 .
As mentioned , the primary allocation objective to be followed in the allocation of stations on clear channels is the provision of widespread service , free from destructive interference .
During nighttime hours , because of the intense skywave propagation then prevailing , no large number of stations can be permitted to operate on one of these channels , if the wide area service for which these frequencies are assigned is to be rendered satisfactorily by the dominant stations which must be relied upon to render it .
Therefore , under our longstanding allocation rules , on some of these channels no station other than the dominant ( class 1 ) -- A ) station is permitted to operate at night , so that the 1 , -- A station can render service , interference free , wherever it can be received .
On the remainder of the clear channels , the dominant ( class 1 ) -- B stations are protected as described above , and the relatively small number of secondary ( class 2 ) ) stations permitted to operate on these channels at night are required to operate directionally and/or with reduced power so as to protect the class 1 , stations .
In the daytime , on the other hand , since skywave transmission is relatively inefficient , it is possible to assign a substantially larger number of stations on these channels .
Additional class 2 , assignments for daytime operation can be made without causing destructive interference to the class 1 , stations or to each other , and by their operation provide additional service on these channels and additional local outlets for a large number of communities .
Such additional daytime class 2 , assignments are appropriate if optimum use is to be made of these frequencies , and the Commission has over the years made a large number of them .
Similarly , on the regional channels many class 3 , stations have been assigned either to operate daytime only or to operate nighttime with directional antennas and/or lower power .
9 .
Essentially , the question presented for decision in the present Daytime Skywave proceeding is whether our decision ( in 1938-1939 ) to assign stations on the basis of daytime conditions from sunrise to sunset , is sound as a basis for AM allocations , or whether , in the light of later developments and new understanding , skywave transmission is of such significance during the hours immediately before sunset and after sunrise that this condition should be taken into account , and some stations required to afford protection to other stations during these hours .
The history of the proceeding
10 .
The decision reached in 1938-39 was made after the accumulation of a large amount of data and thorough study thereof .
Since then , there has been a notable increase in the number of stations and also the accumulation of additional data and the development of new techniques for using it , leading to a better understanding of propagation phenomena .
In 1947 , affidavits were filed with the Commission by various clear-channel stations alleging that extensive interference was being caused to the service areas of these stations during daylight hours , from class 2 , stations whose signals were being reflected from the ionosphere so as to create skywave intereference .
If you elect to use the Standard Deduction or the Tax Table , and later find you should have itemized your deductions , you may do so by filing an amended return within the time prescribed for filing a claim for refund .
See You May Claim A Refund , Page 135 .
The same is true if you have itemized your deductions and later decide you should have used the Standard Deduction or Tax Table .
The words amended return should be plainly written across the top of such return .
When and where to file
April 15 is usually the final date for filing income tax returns for most people because they use the calendar year ending on December 31 .
If you use a fiscal year , a year ending on the last day of any month other than December , your return is due on or before the 15th day of the 4th month after the close of your tax year .
Saturday , Sunday , or holiday .
If the last day ( due date ) for performing any act for tax purposes , such as filing a return or making a tax payment , etc. , falls on Saturday , Sunday , or a legal holiday , you may perform that act on the next succeeding day which is not a Saturday , Sunday , or legal holiday .
Since April 15 , 1962 , is on Sunday your return for the calendar year 1961 will be timely filed if it is filed on or before Monday , April 16 , 1962 .
If you mail A return or tax payment , you must place it in the mails in ample time to reach the district director on or before the due date .
Declaration of estimated tax .
If you were required to file a declaration of estimated tax for the calendar year 1961 , it is not necessary to pay the fourth installment otherwise due on January 15 , 1962 , if you file your income tax return Form 1040 , and pay your tax in full for the calendar year 1961 by January 31 , 1962 .
The filing of an original or amended declaration , otherwise due on January 15 , 1962 , is also waived , if you file your Form 1040 for 1961 and pay the full tax by January 31 , 1962 .
Farmers , for these purposes , have until February 15 , 1962 , to file Form 1040 and pay the tax in full for the calendar year 1961 .
Fiscal year taxpayers have until the last day of the first month following the close of the fiscal year ( farmers until the 15th day of the 2d month ) .
See Chapter 38 .
Nonresident aliens living in Canada or Mexico who earn wages in the United States may be subject to withholding of tax on their wages , the same as if they were citizens of the United States .
Their United States tax returns are due April 16 , 1962 .
However , if their United States income is not subject to the withholding of tax on wages , their returns are due June 15 , 1962 , if they use a calendar year , or the 15th day of the 6th month after the close of their fiscal year .
Nonresident aliens in Puerto Rico .
If you are a nonresident alien and a resident of Puerto Rico , your return is also due June 15 , 1962 , or the 15th day of the 6th month after the close of your fiscal year .
If A taxpayer dies , the executor , administrator , or legal representative must file the final return for the decedent on or before the 15th day of the 4th month following the close of the deceased taxpayer's normal tax year .
Suppose John Jones , who , for 1960 , filed on the basis of a calendar year , died June 20 , 1961 .
His return for the period January 1 to June 20 , 1961 , is due April 16 , 1962 .
The return for a decedent may also serve as a claim for refund of an overpayment of tax .
In such a case , Form 1310 should be completed and attached to the return .
This form may be obtained from the local office of your district director .
Returns of estates or trusts are due on or before the 15th day of the 4th month after the close of the tax year .
Extensions of time for filing .
Under unusual circumstances a resident individual may be granted an extension of time to file a return .
You may apply for such an extension by filing Form 2688 , Application For Extension Of Time To File , with the District Director of Internal Revenue for your district , or you may make your application in a letter .
Your application must include the following information : ( 1 ) your reasons for requesting an extension , ( 2 ) whether you filed timely income tax returns for the 3 preceding years , and ( 3 ) whether you were required to file an estimated return for the year , and if so whether you did file and have paid the estimated tax payments on or before the due dates .
Any failure to file timely returns or make estimated tax payments when due must be fully explained .
Extensions are not granted as a matter of course , and the reasons for your request must be substantial .
If you are unable to sign the request , because of illness or other good cause , another person who stands in close personal or business relationship to you may sign the request on your behalf , stating the reason why you are unable to sign .
You should make any request for an extension early so that if it is refused , your return may still be on time .
See also Interest On Unpaid Taxes , below .
Extensions while abroad .
Citizens of the United States who , on April 15 , are not in the United States or Puerto Rico , are allowed an extension of time until June 15 for filing the return for the preceding calendar year .
An extension of 2 months beyond the regular due date for filing is also available to taxpayers making returns for a fiscal year .
Alaska and Hawaii .
Taxpayers residing or traveling in Alaska are also allowed this extension of time for filing , but those residing or traveling in Hawaii are not allowed this automatic extension .
Military or Naval Personnel on duty in Alaska or outside the United States and Puerto Rico are also allowed this automatic extension of time for filing their returns .
You must attach a statement to your return , if you take advantage of this automatic extension , showing that you were in Alaska or were outside the United States or Puerto Rico on April 15 or other due date .
Interest on unpaid taxes .
Interest at the rate of 6% a year must be paid on taxes that are not paid on or before their due date .
Such interest must be paid even though an extension of time for filing is granted .
When payment is due .
If your computation on Form 1040 or Form 1040A shows you owe additional tax , it should be remitted with your return unless you owe less than $1 , in which case it is forgiven .
If payment is by cash , you should ask for a receipt .
If you file Form 1040A and the District Director computes your tax , you will be sent a bill if additional tax is due .
This bill should be paid within 30 days .
Payment by check or money order .
Whether the check is certified or uncertified , the tax is not paid until the check is paid .
If the check is not good and the April 15 or other due date deadline elapses , additions to the tax may be incurred .
Furthermore , a bad check may subject the maker to certain penalties .
All checks and money orders should be made payable to Internal Revenue Service .
Refunds .
An overpayment of income and social security taxes entitles you to a refund unless you indicate on the return that the overpayment should be applied to your succeeding year's estimated tax .
If you file Form 1040A and the District Director computes your tax , any refund to which you are entitled will be mailed to you .
If you file a Form 1040 , you should indicate in the place provided that there is an overpayment of tax and the amount you want refunded and the amount you want credited against your estimated tax .
Refunds of less than $1 will not be made unless you attach a separate application to your return requesting such a refund .
Where to file .
Send your return to the Director of Internal Revenue for the district in which you have your legal residence or principal place of business .
If you have neither a legal residence nor a principal place of business in any Internal Revenue district , your return should be filed with the District Director of Internal Revenue , Baltimore 2 , Md. .
If your principal place of abode for the tax year is outside the United States ( including Alaska and Hawaii ) , Puerto Rico , or the Virgin Islands and you have no legal residence or principal place of business in any Internal Revenue district in the United States , you should file your return with the Office of International Operations , Internal Revenue Service , Washington 25 , D.C. .
Adjusted gross income
.
The deductions allowed in determining Adjusted Gross Income put all taxpayers on a comparable basis .
It is the amount you enter on line 9 , page 1 of Form 1040 .
Some deductions are subtracted from Gross Income to determine Adjusted Gross Income .
Other deductions are subtracted only from Adjusted Gross Income in arriving at Taxable Income .
To compute your adjusted gross income you total all items of income .
( See Chapter 6 .
) From this amount deduct the items indicated below .
Businessmen deduct all ordinary and necessary expenses attributable to a trade or business .
Rents or royalties .
If you hold property for the production of rents or royalties you subtract , in computing Adjusted Gross Income , ordinary and necessary expenses and certain other deductions attributable to the property .
( See Chapter 15 .
)
Outside salesmen deduct all expenses attributable to earning a salary , commission , or other compensation .
( See Chapter 10 .
)
Employees deduct expenses of travel , meals and lodging while away from home in connection with the performance of their services as employees .
They also deduct transportation expenses incurred in connection with the performance of services as employees even though they are not away from home .
( See Chapter 12 .
) If your employer reimburses you for expenses incurred , you deduct such expenses if they otherwise qualify .
( See Chapter 10 .
)
Sick pay , if included in your Gross Income , is deducted in arriving at Adjusted Gross Income .
If your sick pay is not included in your Gross Income , you may not deduct it .
( See Chapter 9 .
) income from estates and trusts .
If you are a life tenant , you deduct allowable depreciation and depletion .
If you are an income beneficiary of property held in trust or an heir , legatee , or devisee , you may deduct allowable depreciation and depletion , if not deductible by the estate or trust .
Deductible losses on sales or exchanges of property are allowable in determining your Adjusted Gross Income .
( See Chapter 20 .
) 50% of capital gains .
You also deduct 50% of the excess of net long-term capital gains over net short-term capital losses in determining Adjusted Gross Income .
( See Chapter 24 .
) other deductions .
Certain other deductions are not allowed in determining Adjusted Gross Income .
They may be claimed only by itemizing them on page 2 of Form 1040 .
These deductions may not be claimed if you elect to use the Standard Deduction or Tax Table .
( See Chapters 30 through 37 .
)
2 .
Minors minors must also file returns if they earn $600 or more during the year .
A minor is subject to tax on his own earnings even though his parent may , under local law , have the right to them and might actually have received the money .
His income is not required to be included in the return of his parent .
A minor child is allowed A personal exemption of $600 on his own return regardless of how much money he may earn .
Exemption also allowed parent .
If your child is under 19 or is a student you may also claim an exemption for him if he qualifies as your dependent , even though he earns $600 or more .
See Chapter 5 .
Example .
Your 16 year old son earned $720 in 1961 .
You spent $800 for his support .
Since he had gross income of $600 or more , he must file a return in which he may claim an exemption deduction of $600 .
Since you contributed more than half of his support , you may also claim an exemption for him on your return .
He may get a tax refund .
A minor who has gross income of less than $600 is entitled to a refund if income tax was withheld from his wages .
Generally , the refund may be obtained by filing Form 1040A accompanied by the withholding statement ( Form W-2 ) .
If he had income other than wages subject to withholding , he may be required to file Form 1040 .
See Chapter 1 .
If your child works for you , you may deduct reasonable wages you paid to him for services he rendered in your business .
You may deduct these payments even though your child uses the money to purchase his own clothing or other necessities which you are normally obligated to furnish him , and even though you may be entitled to his services .
The one- or two-season hunt , of which there have been too many recently , may do more harm than good ; ;
for such programs raise hopes of assistance toward achieving excellence in scholarship and the arts which are dashed when the programs are discontinued ; ;
and they are dashed , no less , by lack of skill in making selections of men and women for development toward the highest reaches of the mind and spirit .
For the making of selections on the basis of excellence requires that any foundation making the selections shall have available the judgments of a corps of advisors whose judgments are known to be good : such judgments can be known to be good only by the records of those selected , by records made subsequent to their selection over considerable periods of time .
The central group of the Foundation's advisors are , at any one period of time , the members of our Advisory Board , consisting , now , of thirty-six men and women .
They are chosen by the Foundation's Board of Trustees on the bases of their own first-rate accomplishments in their different fields of scholarship and the arts .
Their locations in all parts of the United States , and their locations in the several kinds of educational and research institutions that are the principal homes of our intellectual and artistic strengths also are factors in the Trustees' minds .
For this concept of an Advisory Board , ancillary to the Board of Trustees , we are indebted to the late President of Harvard University , A. Lawrence Lowell , a master of the subject of the structure of cultural institutions and their administration .
That we had the wit and wisdom to adopt Mr. Lowell's concept and make it the base for our processes of selection is one reason why our selections have been , it may be said truly , pretty uniformly good .
For , in accordance with Mr. Lowell's concept of an advisory board , our selections are made by experienced selectors who give both constancy and consistency to our processes and our choices .
And lest we should become too consistent , in the sense of becoming heedless of new fields of scholarship and new points of view in the arts , the Foundation's Board of Trustees maintains a trickle -- not a flow ! !
-- of new members through the Advisory Board .
Two committees of members of the Advisory Board constitute the committees of selection -- one for the selection of Fellows from Canada , the United States , and the English-speaking Caribbean area and one for the selection of Fellows from the Latin American republics and the Republic of the Philippines .
To the members of our Advisory Board , and most specially to its members who constitute our committees of selection , the Foundation is indebted for its successes of choice of Fellows .
We are , as we know , utterly dependent on the quality of advice we get ; ;
and quality of advice , added to devotion to the Foundation's purposes and ideals , we do get from our Advisory Board in measures so full that they can be appreciated only by those of us who work here every day .
But the facts about our Advisory Board and its members' duties are only one of several sets of facts about the quest for advice , both reliable and imaginative , on which to base our selections of Fellows .
For example , the interest of past members of the Foundation's Advisory Board remains such that they place their knowledge and judgments at our disposal much as they had done when they were , formally , members of that Board .
And , besides , there are a large number of scholars , artists , composers of music , novelists , poets , essayists , choreographers , lawyers , servants of government , and men of affairs -- hundreds , indeed -- who serve the Foundation well with the advice they give us freely and gratis out of their experience .
To all , the Foundation gives the kind of thanks which are more than thanks : to them we are grateful beyond the possibility of conveying in words how grateful we are .
It is a truism of business that no business can be better than its board of directors and its top management .
The same is true of every foundation .
During the biennium reviewed in this Report , our Board of Trustees named able men , younger than the rest of us , to the Board and to top management to insure future continuance of the first-class administration of the Foundation's affairs :
Dr. James Brown Fisk , physicist , President of the Bell Telephone Laboratories , was elected to the Board of Trustees .
He is a member both of the National Academy of Sciences and of the American Philosophical Society ; ;
and he has served our country well as a scientific statesman on international commissions .
Dr. Gordon N. Ray , Provost , Vice-President and Professor of English in the University of Illinois , was appointed Associate Secretary General .
The Trustees of the Foundation appointed Dr. Ray to that position with the stated expectation that he would succeed the present Secretary General upon the latter's eventual retirement .
Dr. Ray is a Fellow of the Foundation -- appointed thrice to assist his studies of William Makepeace Thackeray and of H. G. Wells -- and , before his appointment to the Foundation's executive staff , had been given our highest scholarly accolade , appointment to the Advisory Board .
Referring further to the Foundation's officers , Dr. James F. Mathias , for eleven years our discerning colleague as Associate Secretary , was promoted to be Secretary .
He is a historian , with the great merit of a historian's long view .
Also appointed to the Foundation's staff , as Assistant Secretary , is Mr. J. Kellum Smith , Jr. .
Mr. Smith , like the present Secretary General , is a lawyer ; ;
and lawyers -- with the great virtues that they are trained to read `` the fine print '' carefully and are able out of professional experience to arrive at imaginative solutions to difficult problems in many fields -- are indispensable even in a foundation office .
The present Secretary General has been the Foundation's principal administrative officer continuously since the Foundation's establishment thirty-five years ago .
But even he will not last indefinitely and the above-noted new arrangements are , quite simply , made to assure qualitative continuity in the Foundation's policies and practices .
The effective recognition of excellence and its nurture has to be learned and is not learned in a day , nor even in a year .
We are not given to lamentations , neither personally nor in these Reports .
On the contrary , if this be an apocalyptic era as is commonly said , we see it as an era of opportunity .
For , granting that there are great present-day problems to be solved , these problems make great demands ; ;
and by their demanding tend to create resources of men's minds and hearts which problems with easy answers do not bring forth .
Of this , examples are legion : Pericles speaking his funeral oration in Ancient Greece's extremity after Thermopylae and making it a testament of freedom ; ;
Jefferson writing the Declaration of Independence amid the catastrophes of revolution ; ;
Christ preaching the Sermon on the Mount , close to his ultimate sacrifice ; ;
Shakespeare speaking with `` the indescribable gusto of the Elizabethan voice '' -- ; ;
Keats's words -- in the days of the Spanish Armada's threats ; ;
Isaac Newton , at the age of twenty-three , industriously calculating logarithms `` to two and fifty places '' during the great plague year in England , 1665 ; ;
Winston Churchill's Olympian , optimistic and resolute sayings when Britain stood alone against the armed forces of tyranny less than twenty years ago ; ;
the present-day explorations of outer space , answering age-old questions of science and philosophy , in the face of possible wars of extinction .
Forsan et haec olim meminisse iuvabit , as the Roman poet , Virgil , declared with much more historical sense than most writers of today .
It gives , indeed , cause for rejoicing to remember what many catastrophes of the past produced ; ;
and it is to be noted also that confidence should grow from remembering that great men often appeared in the past to turn local catastrophe into future good for all mankind .
For example , out of the social evils of the English industrial revolution came the novels of Charles Dickens ; ;
and his genius moved his readers to seek solutions of those evils for all Western men -- until today -- , in the industrialized West , these social evils substantially do not exist .
The solutions were not arrived at by any theoreticians of the Karl Marx stripe but by men of government -- lawyers , most of them -- and men of business .
These were educated men , who , as Mr. Justice Holmes was fond of saying , formed their inductions out of experience under the burden of responsibility .
That is , to put it realistically , they had to run their businesses at a profit , or they had to get the votes to get elected .
Nevertheless , they made naught of Marx's prophecy that capitalism would never pay the `` workers '' -- to use Marx's word -- more than a subsistence wage , with the consequence that increased productivity must inevitably find its way into the capitalists' pockets with the result , in turn , that the gap between the rich and the poor would irrevocably widen and the misery of the poor increase .
But as all understand who have eyes to see , nothing of the kind has happened ; ;
indeed , the contrary has happened .
The gulf between the `` rich '' and the `` poor '' has narrowed , in the industrialized Western world , to the point that the word `` poor '' is hardly applicable .
And the reason this could happen is clear : men of government , business men , lawyers and all who concerned themselves with the welfare of their fellow men did not let their concern to run their businesses at a profit restrict the development of freedom and opportunity .
Some would say that they were not permitted to run their businesses only for profit ; ;
and even putting it that way would not prove that Marx was anything but wrong .
Sir Henry Sumner Maine , a hundred years before Communism was a force to be reckoned with , wrote his brilliant legal generalization , that `` the progress of society is from status to contract '' .
The essence of contract is that one is free to make a choice of what one will or will not do .
Hence , the condition of freedom is a necessary condition for choice .
The greater the range of freedom for individual men , the greater the range of choice ; ;
the greater the range of choice , the greater the rate of change .
For change is dependent on the possibilities that individual men glimpse for the future .
But when there is not freedom and opportunity to choose , men -- individual men -- must remain in status and society does not , cannot , progress .
The eternal truth is that progress -- due , as it always is , to individual creative genius -- is just as dependent on freedom as human life is dependent on the beating of the heart .
And lest anybody think that considerations such as these are not germane in a foundation report , let me enlighten them with the truths that , under Communism there would have been no capital with which to endow the Foundation , and that there would not be that individual freedom within which the Fellows might proceed , untrammeled in every way , toward their discoveries , their creative efforts for the good of mankind .
During the year 1959 , we granted 354 Fellowships ; ;
in 1960 , we granted 334 .
As heretofore , our Fellowships are available to assist research in all fields of knowledge and creative effort in all the arts .
We do not favor one field over another : we think that all inquiry , all scholarly and artistic creation , is good -- provided only that it contributes to a sense and understanding of the true ends of life , as all first-rate scholarship and artistic creation does .
Indeed , if pressed , we would say what the late Robert Henri , American painter , said to a pupil , `` Anything will do for a subject : it's what you do with it that counts '' .
Thus , we have no part , and want none , in current discussions of the relative importance of science , the social studies , the humanities , the creative arts .
We want no part in such discussions , because we think them largely futile ; ;
and we think them largely futile because , for true excellence of accomplishment , every scholar and every artist must cross boundaries of knowledge and boundaries of points of view .
When the Brown & Sharpe Manufacturing Company reached its 125th year as a going industrial concern during 1958 , it became an almost unique institution in the mechanical world .
With its history standing astride all but the very beginnings of the industrial revolution , Brown & Sharpe has become over the years a singular monument to the mechanical foresight of its founder , Joseph R. Brown , and a world-renowned synonym for precision and progress in metalworking technology .
Joseph R. Brown grew up in the bustle and enterprise of New England between 1810 and 1830 .
He was early exposed to the mechanical world , and in his youth often helped his father , David Brown , master clock and watchmaker , as he plied his trade .
At the age of 17 he became an apprentice machinist at the shop of Walcott & Harris in Valley Falls , Rhode Island , and following two or three other jobs in quick succession after graduation , he went into business for himself in 1831 , making lathes and small tools .
This enterprise led to a father-and-son combination beginning in 1833 , under the name D. Brown & Son , a business which eventually grew into the modern corporation we now call Brown & Sharpe .
The years of Joseph's partnership with his father were numbered .
In 1838 , a devastating fire gutted their small shop and soon thereafter David Brown moved west to Illinois , settling on a land grant in his declining years .
Joseph Brown continued in business by himself , quickly rebuilding the establishment which had been lost in the fire and beginning those first steps which were to establish him as a pioneer in raising the standards of accuracy of machine shop practice throughout the world .
Much of his genius , of course , sprang from his familiarity with clock movements .
During these early years the repair of watches and clocks and the building of special clocks for church steeples formed an important part of the young man's occupation .
He became particularly interested in graduating and precision measurement during the 1840's , and his thinking along these lines developed considerably during this period .
But his business also grew , and we are told that Mr. Brown found it increasingly difficult to devote as much time to his creative thinking as his inclinations led him to desire .
It must have been with some pleasure and relief that on September 12 , 1848 , Joseph Brown made the momentous entry in his job book , in his characteristically cryptic style , `` Lucian Sharpe came to work for me this day as an apprentice '' .
The young apprentice apparently did well by Mr. Brown , for in the third year of his apprenticeship Lucian was offered a full partnership in the firm ; ;
the company became `` J. R. Brown & Sharpe '' , and entered into a new and important period of its development .
Mr. Sharpe's arrival in the business did indeed provide what Mr. Brown had most coveted -- time for `` tinkering '' , and the opportunity of carrying out in the back room those developments in precision graduation which most interested him at that time .
By 1853 , the new partnership announced the precision vernier caliper as the first fruit of their joint efforts .
The basic significance of this invention helped them to follow it rapidly in 1855 by the development of a unique precision gear cutting and dividing engine .
That development , in turn , formed the foundation of still more significant expansions in later years -- in gear cutting , in circular graduating , in index drilling , and in many other fields where accuracy was a paramount requirement .
Throughout their careers , both Mr. Brown and Mr. Sharpe were interested in the problem of setting up standards of measurement for the mechanical trades .
Several efforts were made in this direction , and though not all of them survive to this day , the Brown & Sharpe wire gage system was eventually adopted as the American standard and is still in common use today .
As one development followed another , the company's reputation for precision in the graduating field brought it broader and broader opportunities for expansion in precision manufacture .
In 1858 , the partnership began manufacturing the Willcox & Gibbs sewing machine .
As the story goes , Mr. Gibbs , who originally came from the back counties of the Commonwealth of Virginia , saw an illustration in a magazine of the famous Howe sewing machine .
Curious as to what made it work , he built a crude model of it in wood , and filed a piece of steel until he succeeded in making a metal pickup for the thread , enabling the crude machine to take stitches .
When he showed this model as his `` solution '' as to how the Howe sewing machine operated , he was told he was `` wrong '' , and discovered to his amazement that the Howe Machine , which was unknown to him in detail , used two threads while the one that he had perfected used only one .
Thus was invented the single thread sewing machine , which Mr. Gibbs in partnership with Mr. Willcox decided to bring to Brown & Sharpe with the proposal that the small company undertake its manufacture .
The new work was a boon to the partnership , not only for its own value but particularly for the stimulation it provided to the imagination of J. R. Brown toward yet further developments for production equipment .
The turret screw machine , now known as the Brown & Sharpe hand screw machine , takes its ancestry directly from Mr. Brown's efforts to introduce equipment to simplify the manufacture of the sewing machine .
Mr. Brown made important additions to the arts in screw machine design by drastically improving the means for revolving the turret , by introducing automatic feeding devices for the stock , and reversible tap and die holders .
In 1861 , Mr. Brown's attention was called to yet another basic production problem -- the manufacture of twist drills .
At that time , during the Civil War , Union muskets were being manufactured in Providence and the drills to drill them were being hand-filed with rattail files .
This process neither satisfied the urgent production schedules nor Mr. Brown's imagination of the possibilities in the situation .
The child of this problem was Mr. Brown's famous Serial No. 1 Universal Milling Machine , the archtype from which is descended today's universal knee-type milling machine used throughout the world .
The original machine , bearing its famous serial number , is still on exhibition at the Brown & Sharpe Precision Center in Providence .
During the Civil War period Mr. Brown also invented the Brown & Sharpe formed tooth gear cutter , a basic invention which ultimately revolutionized the world's gear manufacturing industry by changing its basic economics .
Up until that time it had been possible to make cutters for making gear teeth , but they were good for only one sharpening .
As soon as the time came for re-sharpening , the precise form of the gear tooth was lost and a new cutter had to be made .
This process made the economical manufacture of gears questionable until some way could be found to permit the repeated re-sharpening of gear tooth cutters without the loss of the precision form .
Mr. Brown's invention achieved this and , as a byproduct , formed the cornerstone of Brown & Sharpe's position of leadership in the gear making equipment field which lasted until the 1920's when superceded by other methods .
The micrometer caliper , as a common workshop tool , also owes much to J. R. Brown .
Although Mr. Brown was not himself its inventor ( it was a French idea ) , it is typical that his intuition first conceived the importance of mass producing this basic tool for general use .
So it was that when Mr. Brown and Mr. Sharpe first saw the French tool on exhibition in Paris in 1868 , they brought a sample with them to the United States and started Brown & Sharpe in yet another field where it retains its leadership to this day .
The final achievement of Mr. Brown's long and interesting mechanical career runs a close second in importance to his development of the universal milling machine .
That achievement was his creation of the universal grinding machine , which made its appearance in 1876 at the Philadelphia Centennial Exposition .
This machine , like its milling counterpart , was the antecedent of a machine-family used to this very day in precision metalworking shops throughout the world .
Along with J. R. Brown's other major developments , the universal grinding machine was profoundly influential in setting the course of Brown & Sharpe for many years to come .
Following Mr. Brown's death , there came forward in the Brown & Sharpe organization many other men who contributed greatly to the development of the company .
One such man was Samuel Darling .
As head of the firm Darling & Swartz , Mr. Darling began by challenging Brown & Sharpe to its keenest competition during the 1850's and early 60's .
In 1868 , however , a truce was called between the companies , and the partnership of Darling , Brown & Sharpe was formed .
Between that year and the buying out of Mr. Darling's interest in 1892 , a large portion of the company's precision tool business was carried out under the name of Darling , Brown & Sharpe , and to this day many old precision tools are in use still bearing that famous trademark .
Perhaps the outstanding standard bearer of Mr. Brown's tradition for accuracy was Mr. Oscar J. Beale , whose mechanical genius closely paralleled that of Mr. Brown , and whose particular forte was the development of the exceedingly accurate measuring machinery that enabled Brown & Sharpe to manufacture gages , and therefore its products , with an accuracy exceeding anything then available elsewhere in the world .
Also important on the Brown & Sharpe scene , at the turn of the century , was Mr. Richmond Viall , Works Superintendent of the company from 1876 to 1910 .
Mr. Viall possessed remarkable talents for the leadership and development of men .
He was an ardent champion of the Brown & Sharpe Apprentice Program and personal counselor to countless able men who first developed their industrial talents with the company .
In one sense it can be said that one of the most important Brown & Sharpe products over the years has been the men who began work with the company and subsequently came to places of industrial eminence throughout the nation and even abroad .
Commencing with the death of Lucian Sharpe in 1899 , the name of Henry D. Sharpe was for more than 50 years closely interwoven with the destiny of the company .
During his presidency , the company's physical plant was enormously expanded , and the length and breadth of the Brown & Sharpe machine tool line became the greatest in the world .
During the early part of this century , the Brown & Sharpe works in Providence were unchallenged as the largest single manufacturing facility devoted exclusively to precision machinery and tool manufacture anywhere in the world .
During these years the company's product line followed the basic tenets laid down by Mr. Brown .
It expanded from hand screw machines to automatic screw machines , from simple formed-tooth gear cutting machines to gear hobbing machines and a large contract gear manufacturing business , from rudimentary belt-driven universal milling machines to a broad line of elaborately controlled knee-type and manufacturing type milling machines .
In the grinding machine field , expansion went far from universal grinders alone and took in cylindrical grinders , surface grinders , and a wide variety of special and semi-special models .
In 1951 , Henry D. Sharpe , Jr. succeeded his father and continued the company's development as a major factor in the metal-working equipment business .
The company is still broadening its line and is now active on four major fronts .
The Machine Tool Division is currently producing Brown & Sharpe single spindle automatic screw machines , grinding machines of many types , and knee and bed-type milling machines .
Recently added is the Brown & Sharpe turret drilling machine which introduces the company to an entirely new field of tool development .
